WELCOME TO THE APRIL
16 TWENTY TWENTY FOUR REGULAR
MEETING OF THE CITY OF ANN
ARBOR PLANNING COMMISSION FOR
DETAILED INFORMATION ON MEETING
PROCEDURES, PLEASE REVIEW THE
FULL PRINTED AGENDA PROVIDED
MR. LUNNER, WILL YOU PLEASE
CALL THE ROLL CALL?
CAN YOU SAY THAT ONE MORE TIME?
MR. LEONARD, WILL YOU PLEASE
CALL THE ROLL
?
>> WELL, I'LL GO.
YEAH, NO PROBLEM.
I CAN GIVE IT TWO SECONDS.
THANK YOU FOR YOUR PATIENCE.
>> YEAH.
ALL RIGHT.
ESPECIALLY THE ECHO THAT WOULD
BE LIKE SOME MANUAL REVERB.
SORRY ABOUT THAT.
>> UM, WHERE WERE WE
COMMISSIONER LEE?
I AM HERE MR. APRON'S
COMMISSIONER WHICH COMMISSIONER
MILLS HERE.
COMMISSIONER HAMMERSCHMIDT
HERE.
COMMISSIONER GISH HERE.
>> MR. CLARK.
YEAH COMMISSIONER.
WHETHER HERE MR. ADAMS HERE
HERE WE HAVE A QUORUM.
THANK YOU.
MAY I HAVE A MOTION TO APPROVE
THE AGENDA MOVE BY COMMISSIONER
WISCH SECONDED BY COMMISSIONER
MILLS ALL THOSE IN FAVOR SAY AY
AY AND HE OPPOSED SAYING NONE.
THE MOTION CARRIES ME.
>> I HAVE A MOTION TO APPROVE
THE MINUTES OF THE APRIL 2ND
TWENTY TWENTY FOUR MOVED BY
COMMISSIONER MILLS AND SECONDED
BY COMMISSIONER WHETHER IT BE
ALL THOSE IN FAVOR OF THE
MOTION PLEASE SAY I AY ANY
OPPOSED NOT MOTION CARRIES.
>> NEXT UP ARE REPORTS THE
PLANNING COMMISSION AND WRITTEN
COMMUNICATIONS.
I WOULD LIKE TO GO TO MANAGER
REPORT FIRST TO GIVE COUNCIL
MEMBER JUST A QUICK SECOND SIR
LETTER THANK YOU.
>> TWO REPORTS FOR YOU ONE A
PRESS RELEASE HAS BEEN RELEASED
AND WE WILL BE DOING MORE
OUTREACH BUT WE HAVE A SERIES
OF OPEN HOUSES NEXT WEEK
THROUGHOUT THE COMMUNITY FOR
OUR COMPREHENSIVE PLAN.
WE WILL BE HOLDING MEETINGS ON
TUESDAY, APRIL TWENTY THIRD AT
THE ANN ARBOR DISTRICT LIBRARY
AT RIVERWOOD ON WEDNESDAY APRIL
TWENTY FOURTH AT THE ANN ARBOR
TO COLLABORATE WITH KATE AND ON
FRIDAY APRIL TWENTY SIX THAT
YOU GUESSED IT THE ANN ARBOR
DISEQUILIBRIA AT MALTZ CREEK.
ALL OF THESE WILL BE FROM FOUR
O'CLOCK TO SEVEN O'CLOCK PM AND
I HOPE SOME COMMISSIONERS CAN
POP IN FOR ONE OF THOSE WHEN
YOU GET A CHANCE.
ADDITIONALLY, I AM EXCITED TO
INTRODUCE YOU TO SOME NEW
COLLEAGUES OF ALEXIS AND MY SO
WITH THAT I WOULD LIKE TO
INTRODUCE THREE NEW MEMBERS
OF MY TEAM.
I'M GOING TO HAVE THEM EACH
JUST COME UP TO THE PODIUM
REALLY QUICKLY, INTRODUCE
THEMSELVES THEIR ROLE AND AS
YOU'RE GOING TO BE INTERACTING
WITH THEM IN DIFFERENT
CAPACITIES OVER THE COMING
YEAR, I THOUGHT IT'D BE A GREAT
OPPORTUNITY TO PROVIDE THIS
INTRODUCTION.
SO JUMP UP WHOEVER WANTS TO GO
FIRST.
EVERYONE MY NAME IS MARIANA
LILLIEN CAUCHON.
I JUST JOINED
YESTERDAY AS AN
ASSOCIATE PLANNER BEFORE THIS I
WAS WITH THE CITY OF CHICAGO
AND I MOST RECENTLY WAS WORKING
AS A CONSULTANT IN HISTORIC
PRESERVATION.
SO I AM PARTICULARLY EXCITED TO
CONTINUE PRESERVATION WORK WITH
THE CITY.
>> THANK YOU.
WELCOME.
>> GOOD EVENING.
EVERYONE.
MY NAME IS BRITTANY ALEXANDER.
I'M HERE AS AN ADMINISTRATOR
OF ASSISTANT.
I STARTED YESTERDAY AS WELL
PRIOR TO THIS I ACTUALLY WORKED
IN DETROIT FOR A DETROIT
NONPROFIT CALLED ALTERNATIVE'S
FOR GIRLS AND I'M ALSO AN MBA
STUDENT AT THE UNIVERSITY
OF TOLEDO.
GREAT WELCOME
.
GOOD EVENING EVERYONE.
I'M REALLY EXCITED TO BE
WORKING WITH EVERYONE AND IT'S
REALLY GREAT TO BE BACK IN ANN
ARBOR AFTER SPENDING THE LAST
EIGHT YEARS IN BRAZIL.
MY NAME IS JULIE AL-SHEIK AND
I'M ONE OF THE ASSOCIATE
PLANNERS HERE AS WELL.
I WAS DOING SUSTAINABILITY WORK
AND TEACHING PLANNING IN BRAZIL
AND PREVIOUSLY WORKED WITH IN
URBAN PLANNING REDEVELOPMENT IN
TACOMA AND LOS ANGELES MANY
YEARS AGO.
I'M REALLY EXCITED TO MEET
EVERYONE AND GET TO KNOW
EVERYONE AND WORK WITH EVERYONE
.
>> THANK YOU.
WELCOME BACK.
THEY'VE CONCLUDED IN MY REPORT
THAT THANK YOU MR. LUTTER AND
WE WILL GO TO COUNCIL MEMBER
DESH.
>> THANK YOU VERY MUCH FOR THE
FLIPPING OF THE AGENDA OF THE
USUAL ORDER.
SO LAST NIGHT COUNCIL APPROVED
THE ANNEXATION OF RIVERSIDE
WHICH WAS THE WE HAD VOTED FOR
OUR WENDIE AND THAT IS HOW WE
THE PLANNING COMMISSION HAD
VOTED THAT WAY AND THAT IS HOW
COUNCIL VOTED.
WE ALSO VOTED TO RELEASE THE
RIGHT ROAD WAY RIGHT AT TWENTY
EIGHT 45 SOUTH STATE STREET AND
WE ALSO APPROVED THE VACATION
OF THE PORTION OF EAST
EISENHAUER AT TWENTY EIGHT
FORTY FIVE SOUTH STATE STREET
BOTH FOR THE PURPOSES OF INFILL
DEVELOPMENT IN THOSE PROPERTIES
WHICH WE SHOULD SOON BE SEEING
A PRESENTATION FOR.
>> THANK YOU.
>> IF I COULD JUST ONE MORE
THING.
ANOTHER FEATURE OF LAST NIGHT'S
COUNCIL MEETING WAS THE CITY
ADMINISTRATOR PRESENTED HIS
RECOMMENDED BUDGET AND I AM
EXCITED NO NOTHINGS ADOPTED YET
BY THE CITY ADMINISTRATOR HAS
RECOMMENDED A AN ADDITIONAL
PLANNING POSITION FOR THE
PLANNING DEPARTMENT.
PART OF THE RATIONALE FOR THAT
WAS RECOGNIZING THAT WE AS PART
OF WITH SOME NEW NEWS STAFF,
WE'VE ALSO LOST A LOT
OF EXPERIENCE FROM SOME OF OUR
RETIRING PLANNERS.
>> SO THERE'S TO MAKING SURE
WE'RE MAINTAINING CAPACITY AND
SOMETIMES THE COMMISSION AND
THE COUNCIL HAVE THOUGHTS ABOUT
ORDINANCE AMENDMENTS AND
PLANNING.
IT'LL ALSO OFFER US THE
OPPORTUNITY TO PUT SOME MORE
RESOURCES INTO THOSE OF THE
DEDICATED FUNCTIONS ON OUR WORK
PLANS RATHER THAN SORT
OF TRYING TO MAYBE SPACE THEM
INTO THE SPACES OF DEVELOPMENT
REVIEW AND A LITTLE BIT MORE
DELIBERATE FASHION.
IT ALSO INCLUDES A
RECOMMENDATION FOR A PART TIME
ZONING COORDINATOR IN ADDITION
TO WE HAVE A CURRENT FULL TIME
ZONING COORDINATOR WHICH WILL
HELP US WITH SOME ADDITIONAL
PERMIT REVIEW ZONING
ENFORCEMENT DESIGN REVIEW.
WE SINCE PARTICULARLY FRANKLY
SINCE THE OUTDOOR LIGHTING
CHANGES WERE HAPPENING, WE GET
QUITE A LOT OF INQUIRIES AND
OUTDOOR LIGHTING AND IT TAKES
QUITE A BIT OF EDUCATION ABOUT
WHAT THE EFFECT THAT ORDINANCE
IS AND ISN'T.
BUT IN ANY EVENT WE'RE REALLY
HAPPY WITH THE PROSPECT OF THE
CAPACITY INCREASING SHOULD THAT
BUDGET PROCEED AS RECOMMENDED.
THANK YOU MR. LEARNER.
DO ANY OF THE OTHER COMMITTEE
VEYSEL OR COMMISSIONER OFFICERS
HAVE ANY OTHER REPORT SEEING
NONE WRITTEN COMMUNICATIONS ARE
INCLUDED IN TODAY'S PACKAGE.
WE'RE GOING TO MOVE ON TO
SECTION SIX WHICH IS PUBLIC
COMMENT THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY
FOR PERSONS TO SPEAK UP TO
THREE MINUTES ABOUT AN ISSUE
THAT IS NOT LISTED AS A PUBLIC
HEARING ON THIS AGENDA.
WE'LL FIRST CALL ON INDIVIDUALS
PRESENT TO ADDRESS THE
COMMISSION, THEN REMOTE
PARTICIPANTS TO SPEAK DURING
THIS PUBLIC HEARING REMOTELY
PLEASE PRESS STAR NINE BY PHONE
OR USE THE RAISED HAND FEATURE
IF VIEWING FOR THE WEBLINK
PHONE ACCESS PLEASE CALL EIGHT
SEVEN SEVEN EIGHT FIVE THREE
FIVE TWO FOUR SEVEN AN
INTERMEETING ID NINE SEVEN
SEVEN SIX SIX THREE FOUR ONE
TWO TWO SIX.
CITY STAFF WILL SELECT CALLERS
TO RAISE THEIR HAND USING THE
LAST THREE YEARS OF THE PHONE
NUMBER OR BY NAME IF AVAILABLE
YOU WILL HEAR AN AUTOMATED
ANNOUNCEMENT THAT THE HOST IS
ALLOWING YOU TO SPEAK AND WHEN
SPEAKING PLEASE MOVE TO A QUIET
AREA AND MUTE BACKGROUND
NOISES.
WE CAN HEAR YOU CLEARLY AND FOR
EITHER METHOD OF PARTICIPATION
PLEASE YOUR NAME AND YOUR
ADDRESS AT THE BEGINNING
OF YOUR COMMENTS IS THERE
ANYONE PRESENT THAT WOULD LIKE
TO SPEAK AT THIS TIME SEEING
NONE.
>> IS THERE ANYONE WHO WOULD
LIKE TO ADDRESS THE COMMISSION
REMOTELY?
MR. LEONARD, THERE ARE NO
ATTENDEES LIKE DENHA CURRENTLY
GOT IT.
>> GIVE IT TO THREE MORE
SECONDS.
THANK YOU.
WE'RE GOING TO MOVE ON TO WITH
THAT I WILL CLOSE PUBLIC
COMMENT.
WE'RE MOVING ON TO SECTION
NUMBER SEVEN PUBLIC HEARINGS
SCHEDULED FOR THE NEXT BUSINESS
MEETING.
I'M GOING TO MOVE RIGHT BACK TO
STAFF.
MR. LEINERT.
>> YEAH, CHINA A PUBLIC HEARING
ON THE FOLLOWING ITEM WILL BE
HELD AT THE ENTIRE CITY
PLANNING COMMISSION.
MONTEUX DAY MAY 7TH.
TWENTY TWENTY FOUR SOUTHTOWN
ADDITIONAL ZONING STATEMENT
AMENDMENT SIXTEEN ON ONE SOUTH
STATE STREET A PETITION TO
AMEND THE SOUTHTOWN CONDITIONAL
ZONING STATEMENT OF CONDITIONS
ADOPTED INCORPORATED BY
ORDINANCE TWENTY THREE DESH
TWENTY FOUR TO ZONI ONE POINT
SIX SIX ACRE SITE SEE ONE ACRE
CAMPUS BUSINESS RESIDENTIAL
DISTRICT WITH CONDITIONS BY
RESTATING PARAGRAPH TWO D FROM
QUOTE THE PROPERTY SHALL HAVE
NO NATURAL GAS CONNECTIONS
EXCEPT FOR EMERGENCY BACKUP
POWER TO THE PROPOSED
REPLACEMENT LANGUAGE THE
PROPERTY WILL DEMONSTRATE
CONTAINING CONTINUOUS MICROCAR
GRID OPERATION AT SIXTY TO
SEVENTY FIVE PERCENT LESS
CARBON INTENSITY THAN
ELECTRICITY INCUMBENT DETI
THANK YOU.
WE'RE GOING TO MOVE ON TO
AGENDA NUMBER EIGHT UNFINISHED
UNFINISHED BUSINESS WHICH THERE
ARE NONE WHICH TAKES US TO
SECTION NINE, A REGULAR
BUSINESS.
I'M GOING TO INTRODUCE THE
PETITION FOR FOR FOR HUNTINGTON
PLACE ANNEXATION AND ZONING FOR
CITY COUNCIL APPROVAL.
>> THIS IS A REQUEST TO ANNEX
THIS ZERO POINT SIX ONE ACRE
PARCEL AND EXISTING SINGLE
FAMILY HOME IN ANN ARBOR
TOWNSHIP TO THE CITY OF ANN
ARBOR ZONE ARE ONE BE SINGLE
FAMILY DWELLING AND CONNECT TO
UTILITIES.
THE STAFF RECOMMENDATION IS
APPROVAL AND WE WILL FIRST GO
TO PETITIONER PRESENTATION.
MISS LOU OR IS IT GOING TO
STAFF?
I THINK THE WRITING STAFF A
PRETTY SIMPLE ANNEXATION.
I DON'T THINK WE'RE
ANTICIPATING A PRESENTATION BY
THE PETITIONER IF THAT'S A GOOD
QUESTION.
THAT'S PERFECT.
>> THANK YOU.
>> AS MENTIONED, THIS IS A
FAIRLY SIMPLE ANNEXATION.
THANK YOU.
THIS IS THE FOUR FOR FOR
HUNTINGTON PLACE ANNEXATION AND
ZONING.
THIS IS A IT YET IS THIS IS A
SITE LOCATED ON THE SOUTH SIDE
OF HUNTINGTON PLACE NORTH
OF GETTIS AND WEST OF RIVERVIEW
DRIVE PETITIONER REQUEST
ANNEXATION AND R ONE B SINGLE
FAMILY DWELLING DISTRICT ZONING
DESIGNATION.
THE REQUEST WILL ALLOW THE
PARSLOW TO CONNECT TO CITY
UTILITIES AND IS WITHIN THE
CONTIGUOUS BOUNDED LIMITS
OF THE CITY.
SOME INFORMATION IN THE STAFF
REPORT REGARDING EXISTING AND
PROPOSED ZONING AND DIMENSIONAL
STANDARDS AND SURROUNDING LAND
USES.
THERE ARE NO UNRESOLVED
COMMENTS OUR ENGINEERING
DEPARTMENT SAYS THAT WATER AND
SANITARY SEWER SERVICES ARE
AVAILABLE TO THE PROPERTY BUT
STORM SEWER IS NOT AND THEY
HAVE A NOTE THAT A CONNECTION
TO SANITARY SEWER MAY REQUIRE.
A PROFESSIONAL ENGINEER
DESIGNED THE PLANNING
COMMISSION IS A RECOMMENDING
BODY TO THE CITY COUNCIL AND WE
RECOMMEND APPROVAL OF THIS.
I HAVE ON THE SCREEN A ZONING
MAP SHOWING THAT IT IS THE
LOCATION OF THE PROPERTY AND
YOU CAN SEE THERE IS A
HODGEPODGE OF ARE ONE A AND R
ONE B ZONING SURROUNDING IT.
WE HAVE PROPOSED ARE ONE B
ZONING DESIGNATION AND I CAN
OPEN UP UPON FUMBLING I CAN
OPEN A AERIAL PHOTO OF THIS
PROPERTY AND HERE WE GO AND LET
ME MAKE IT FULL SCREEN.
THERE YOU GO.
YOU CAN SEE THE PROPERTY HERE
IN THE CENTER OF THE PAGE.
>> THANK YOU.
WE'RE GOING TO MOVE ON TO A
PUBLIC HEARING THIS IS AN
OPPORTUNITY FOR PERSONS TO
SPEAK UP TO YOU THREE MINUTES
ABOUT THIS PARTICULAR ISSUE.
FIRST CALL ON INDIVIDUALS
PRESENT TO ADDRESS THE
COMMISSION, THEN REMOTE
PARTICIPANTS TO SPEAK DURING
THIS PUBLIC HEARING REMOTELY
PLEASE PRESS STAR NINE IF
LISTENING BY PHONE OR USE THE
PHRASE HAND FEATURE I'M USING
THE I APOLOGIZE IF YOU INCLUDE
THE WEBLINK FOR PHONE ACCESS
PLEASE CALL EIGHT SEVEN SEVEN
EIGHT FIVE THREE FIVE TO FOUR
SEVEN AND ENTER MEETING ID NINE
SEVEN SEVEN SIX SIX THREE FOUR
ONE TWO TWO SIX.
CITY STAFF WILL SELECT CALLERS
WHO HAVE RAISED OUR HAND USING
THE LAST THREE DIGITS OF A
PHONE NUMBER OR BY NAME.
IF AVAILABLE YOU'LL HEAR AN
AUTOMATED ANNOUNCEMENT THAT THE
HOST IS ALLOWING YOU TO SPEAK
AND WHEN SPEAKING PLEASE MOVE
TO A QUIET AREA MUTE ANY
BACKGROUND NOISES SO WE CAN
HEAR YOU CLEARLY FOR EITHER
METHOD OF PARTICIPATION.
PLEASE STATE YOUR NAME AND
ADDRESS THE BEGINNING OF THE
COMMENTS AND IS THERE ANYONE
PRESENT LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
TIME
?
>> OK, SEEING NONE WE'RE GOING
TO MOVE ON TO IS THERE ANYONE
THAT WOULD LIKE TO ADDRESS THE
COMMISSION REMOTELY?
HELLO
?
SOMEBODY'S JUST POPPING ON.
YES WE DO ADAM JUST COVERTS YOU
HAVE THREE MINUTES TO ADJUST
THE PLANNING COMMISSION.
HI THIS IS ADAM DISCOVERED FROM
THE FOURTH WORD I WASN'T GOING
TO COMMENT ON THIS.
I JUST WANTED TO LET YOU KNOW
THAT THE AUDIO ON THE ZULFI
FEED DOES NOT APPEAR TO BE
WORKING.
SO THANK YOU.
JUST LETTING YOU KNOW.
THANK YOU
.
MR. OLENNA, WOULD YOU LIKE TO
TAKE A RECESS POSSIBLY.
>> YEAH.
LET'S TAKE A MAYBE WE COULD
TAKE A TEN MINUTE BREAK.
MY UNDERSTANDING IS THIS DID
HAPPEN WITH THE HTC MEETING
RECENTLY AND A REBOOT BACK IN
THE MASTER CONTROL ROOM HELPED
.
SO LET ME SEE IF WE CAN DO THE
SAME.
MAYBE IF WE COULD TAKE A TEN
MINUTE BREAK I CAN SEE IF
THAT'S A POSSIBLE SOLUTION.
>> YES, WE WILL RECONVENE AT
SEVEN TWENTY FIVE P.M. THANK
YOU
, MIKE.
>> THAT
I'M GOING TO CALL THE
MEETING BACK TO ORDER AND
HOPEFULLY ARE XOOM ISSUES HAVE
RESOLVED WE WILL ACTUALLY LET
THE PUBLIC COMMENT OR SPEAK ONE
MORE TIME TO MAKE SURE THAT
THEY CAN HEAR US.
HEY YEAH IT'S WORKING FINE.
>> THANK YOU.
ALL RIGHT WITH THAT DO WE HAVE
ANY OTHER CALLERS?
>> WE DO NOT.
>> THANK YOU, MISS ALEXIS.
I WILL GO AHEAD AND READ THE
PROPOSED MOTION TO ANN ARBOR
CITY PLANNING COMMISSION HEREBY
RECOMMENDS THAT THE MAYOR AND
CITY COUNCIL APPROVE THE
ANNEXATION AND ARE ONE BE
SINGLE FAMILY DWELLING DISTRICT
ZONING OF FOUR FOUR FOR
HUNTINGTON MOVE BY COUNCIL
MEMBER DISH SECOND BY
COMMISSIONER WHETHER IT BE WE
ARE IN DISCUSSION WITH ANYONE
LIKE THE KICK OFF COMMISSIONER
HAMMERSCHMIDT, I JUST HAVE A
QUICK QUESTION.
WHEN I SAW THIS AT LEAST TWO
OF THESE ANNEXATIONS THIS IS A
PUBLIC STORM SEWER IS NOT
AVAILABLE TO THE PROPERTY.
WHAT EXACTLY IS THAT MEAN AND
IS THAT CONCERNING OF THE THREE
THAT IS THE LEAST CONCERNING UM
YOU DEFINITELY WANT WATER TO
TURN ON THE TAPS AND YOU'D WANT
STORM SEWER SO THAT YOU CAN'T
I'M SORRY YOU WANT SANITARY ARE
SO YOU CAN FLUSH THIS MEANS
THAT THERE'S NO STORMS WHO ARE
IN THE ROAD.
THERE'S NO WORD THE THE THING
YEP.
>> THE WORD IS NOT KURBAN
GUTTER BUT THE STORM DRAINS IF
THEY FOR EXAMPLE IF THEY HAD A
SUMP PUMP IT WOULD HAVE TO
DISCHARGE INTO THE YARD.
THERE'S NO OTHER PLACE FOR IT
TO GO BUT THAT'S THE AND THIS
WOULD BE NEIGHBORHOOD WIDE NOT
JUST FOR THE PROPERTY.
YEAH, I WAS I WAS LIKE ZOOMIN
AROUND IN THE NEIGHBORHOOD.
I SAW ONE LOOK AROUND THE
CORNER SO THAT'S NOT LIKE WE
DON'T WE'RE NOT WORRIED ABOUT
THIS FROM LIKE A RUNOFF OR
STORMWATER MANAGEMENT OR
ANYTHING ISSUE AT THIS POINT
THERE'S STILL OBLIGATED NOT TO
CREATE A DRAINAGE NUISANCE BUT
YOU CAN DO THAT ON SITE AS
WELL.
FOR EXAMPLE, RAIN GARDENS OR
SWAILS YOU CAN CONTROL AND NOT
MAKE A DRAINAGE NUISANCE IN
OTHER WAYS WITHOUT A CITY STORM
SEWER RIGHT.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
ANY OTHER COMMENTS OK.
>> OH YES.
>> MR. WHITE'S RATIONALE FOR
NOT GOING TO R ONE D OR R ONE E
O OUR STAFF RATIONALE WAS
CONSISTENCY WITH THE
SURROUNDING ZONING.
A DIFFERENT ZONING DESIGNATION
CAN BE A RECOMMENDATION CAN BE
CHANGED.
I'M SORRY YOUR MOTION TO
RECOMMEND APPROVAL CAN BE
CHANGED BUT OUR RECOMMENDATION
WAS BASED ON CONSISTENCY WITH
THE SURROUNDING.
THANK YOU.
WITH THAT IF I SEE NO FURTHER
COMMENTS WE WILL MOVE TO A
ROLL-CALL VOTE.
>> MR. LUTTER OK SO THE MOTION
IS AS PRESENTED IN THE STAFF
REPORT TO RECOMMEND ANNEXATION
AND ZONING TO OUR ONE B
COMMISSIONER WHITECHURCH LESS
COMMISSIONER MILLS YES.
COMMISSIONER HAMMERSCHMIDT.
YES COMMISSIONER.
YES COMMISSIONER CLARK YES.
>> COMMISSIONER WEATHERBY.
YES.
COMMISSIONER ADAMS.
YES I SURELY YES.
MOTION CARRIES THANK YOU.
>> WE'RE GOING TO MOVE ON TO
THE NEXT PETITION WHICH IS ONE
TEN AL-JUBURI WAY.
THIS IS AN ANNEXATION AND
ZONING FOR CITY COUNCIL
APPROVAL REQUEST.
AN ANNEX IS VACANT ZERO POINT
ZERO FIVE ACRE TWENTY ONE
SEVENTY EIGHT SQUARE FEET
PARCEL IN ANN ARBOR TOWNSHIP TO
THE CITY.
VANDERBURGH AND ZOHN ARE ONE B
SINGLE FAMILY DWELLING AND THE
STAFF RECOMMENDATION IS
APPROVAL.
>> WE WILL MOVE ON TO STAFF
PRESENTATION.
>> THANK YOU AGAIN.
I THINK WE JUST GO WITH THE
STAFF PRESENTATION.
ALLOW ME ONE MOMENT TO SCREEN
SHARE THE SITE.
OK.
>> ALL RIGHT THANK YOU.
THIS IS ONE TEN LGB WAY
ANNEXATION AND ZONING.
IT IS LOCATED ON THE WEST SIDE
OF US.
TWENTY THREE NORTH OF OUR LAND
SHOPPING CENTER OFF
OF WASHINGTON AVENUE.
THIS IS A ON THE ONE HAND IT'S
FAIRLY STRAIGHTFORWARD.
THIS IS JUST ANNEXATION OF A
VACANT VERY SMALL THREE
THOUSAND SQUARE FOOT PARCEL
THAT'S IN ANN ARBOR TOWNSHIP
BUT IT IS WITHIN THIS CITY
BOUNDARY BOUNDED LIMITS.
THE INTERESTING PART ABOUT THIS
IS THAT IT IS ALTHOUGH IT
FRONTS ON US TWENTY THREE IT
HAS FRONTAGE ON A PUBLIC RIGHT
OF WAY.
THAT RIGHT OF WAY IS A LIMITED
ACCESS HIGHWAY SO IT HAS NO
ACCESS AND THIS PARCEL WAS
RECENTLY DISCOVERED TO BE AN
ORPHAN PARCEL CUT OFF FROM ITS
PARENT PARCEL THAT IS ON THE
EAST SIDE OF US.
TWENTY THREE ORPHANED WHEN THE
FREEWAY WHEN THE RIGHT OF WAY
WAS ACQUIRED FOR THE FREEWAY
WAY BACK WHEN THIS PIECE IS
REQUESTED TO BE ANNEXED AND IT
IS OWNED BY ADJACENT LAND
OWNERS AND THEY'D LIKE TO ANNEX
THIS PIECE AND THEY HAVE SOME
PLANS ON HAVING IT HELP WITH
ACCESS FOR OTHER PARCELS.
>> BUT BUT ON ITS FACE THIS IS
A FAIRLY ROUTINE ANNEXATION AND
ZONING OF A VACANT PIECE THEY
ARE REQUESTING OR WE ARE
RECOMMENDING APPROVAL AND
ZONING DESIGNATION ARE ONE B
AGAIN TO BE CONSISTENT WITH THE
SURROUNDINGS.
I DO HAVE A AERIAL PHOTO IF
DESIRED OTHERWISE THE TO
MINIMIZE FUMBLING AROUND I'LL
LEAVE THE ZONING MAP UP.
>> THANK YOU.
WE'LL GO ON A PUBLIC HEARING
NOW THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
PERSONS TO SPEAK UP THE THREE
MINUTES ABOUT THIS ITEM WILL
FIRST CALL ON INDIVIDUALS
PRESENT TO ADDRESS THE
COMMISSION THEN TO PURCHASE
WEAPONS TO SPEAK DURING THIS
PUBLIC HEARING REMOTELY PLEASE
PRESS STAR ON IT LISTENING BY
PHONE OR USE A RAISED HAND
FEATURE IF VIEWING THROUGH THE
WEBLINK FOR PHONE ACCESS PLEASE
CALL EIGHT SEVEN SEVEN EIGHT
FIVE THREE FIVE FOUR SEVEN AND
INTERMEETING ID NINE SEVEN
SEVEN SIX SIX THREE FOUR ONE TO
DO SIX CITY STAFF WILL SELECT
CALLERS THAT RAISE THEIR HANDS
USING THE LAST THREE DIGITS
OF THE PHONE NUMBER OR BY NAME
IF AVAILABLE YOU'LL HEAR AN
AUTOMATED ANNOUNCEMENT THAT THE
HOST IS ALLOWING TO SPEAK AND
WHEN SPEAKING PLEASE MOVE TO A
QUIET AREA MUTE ANY BACKGROUND
NOISES SO THAT WE CAN HEAR YOU
CLEARLY AND FOR EITHER METHOD
OF PARTICIPATION PLEASE STATE
YOUR NAME AND ADDRESS AT THE
BEGINNING OF YOUR COMMENTS.
IS THERE ANYONE PRESENT I WOULD
LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS TIME
SEEING NONE.
>> IS THERE ANYONE REMOTELY
THAT WOULD LIKE TO PARTICIPATE
?
THERE ARE NO HANDS RAISED RIGHT
WITH THAT I WILL CLOSE PUBLIC
HEARING REGARDING THE PROPOSED
MOTION.
ANN ARBOR CITY PLANNING
COMMISSION HEREBY RECOMMENDS
THAT THE MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL
APPROVE THE ANNEXATION AND ARE
ONE BE SINGLE FAMILY DWELLING
DISTRICT ZONING OF ONE TEN
AL-JUBURI WAY MOVED BY
COMMISSIONER MILLS AND SECONDED
BY COUNCIL MEMBER DISH.
WE WILL MOVE INTO DISCUSSION.
ANY COMMENTS SEEMS FAIRLY
ADMINISTRATIVE STRAIGHTFOWARD
WITH THAT SCENE NO COMMENTS
WE'LL MOVE ON TO ROLL CALL VOTE
PROPOSED MOTION AS PRESENTED IN
THE STEP REPORT FOR ANNEXATION
AND WON B ZONING COMMISSIONER
WHICH YES COMMISSIONER MILLS.
YES.
COMMISSIONER HAMMERSCHMIDT.
YES COMMISSIONER.
>> YES COMMISSIONER CLARK YES.
COMMISSIONER WETHERBEE.
YES.
COMMISSIONER ADAMS YES.
COMMISSIONER LEE YES.
THE MOTION CARRIES THANK YOU.
>> WE'RE GOING TO MOVE ON TO
THE REALLY THE LAST ANNEXATION
ITEM FOR THE EVENING.
THIRTY FOUR SEVENTY FOUR EAST
HURON RIVER DRIVE ANNEXATION
AND ZONING FOR CITY COUNCIL
APPROVAL.
THERE'S ONE POINT SIX SIX ACRE
PARCEL IN ANN ARBOR TOWNSHIP TO
THE CITY OF ANN ARBOR REZONING
REQUEST TO END ZONE OR ONE A
SINGLE FAMILY DWELLING TO
CONSTRUCT A SINGLE FAMILY HOME
AND CONNECT TO UTILITIES WITH
THIS DO WE HAVE A PETITION OR
PRESENTATION OR WE ARE MOVING
ON TO STAFF SO MR. LIOW FLOOR
IS YOURS.
THANK YOU AGAIN WITH THE
FUMBLING ON SCREEN CHAIR.
UM
OK.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU AGAIN
TAKES THE TEAM
THIS IS THE THIRTY FOUR SEVENTY
FOUR EAST HERE ON RIVER DRIVE
ANNEXATION AND ZONING IT IS A
ONE POINT SEVEN ACRE PARCEL IN
CURRENTLY ANN ARBOR TOWNSHIP.
THAT REQUEST ANNEXATION AND AH
ONE A SINGLE FAMILY ZONING
DWELLING DISTRICT ZONING
DESIGNATION.
THE PARCEL IS WITHIN A
CONTIGUOUS BOUNDED LIMITS
OF THE CITY AND THE OWNER
INTENDS TO CONSTRUCT A SINGLE
FAMILY HOME ON THE LOT.
STAFF REPORT DETAILS SOME
OF THE DIMENSIONAL
CHARACTERISTICS OF THE PARCEL
AND THE SURROUNDING LAND USES.
THERE ARE AGAIN ENGINEERING HAS
NOTED THAT WATER AND SANITARY
SEWER SERVICES ARE AVAILABLE
PUBLIC STORM SEWER IS NOT ON
THE SCREEN.
I HAVE THE PROPOSED ZONING MAP
WITH THE SHOWING THE SITE AND
WE HAVE PROPOSED THE R-1 A
ZONING DESIGNATION AGAIN FOR
CONSISTENCY WITH THE IMMEDIATE
SURROUNDING ZONING DESIGNATIONS
.
STEPH IS RECOMMENDING APPROVAL
AND I DON'T BELIEVE THE
PETITIONERS HERE AND THAT'S
FINE.
>> THANK YOU.
WE'LL MOVE ON TO PUBLIC HEARING
.
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
PERSONS TO SPEAK UP THE THREE
MINUTES ABOUT THIS ITEM FIRST
CALL ON INDIVIDUALS HERE AND
THEN REMOTE PARTICIPANTS TO
SPEAK DURING A PUBLIC HEARING
REMOTELY PLEASE PRESS STAR NINE
ON THE PHONE OR USE THE RAISED
HAND FEATURE IF YOU INTO THE
LINK FOR PHONE ACCESS PLEASE
CALL 877 EIGHT FIVE THREE FIVE
TO FOUR SEVEN AND MEETING ID
NINE SEVEN SEVEN SIX SIX THREE
FOUR ONE TWO TWO SIX.
>> CITY STAFF ALSO ASK CALLERS
THAT HAVE RAISED HER HAND USING
THE LAST THREE DAYS OF THE
PHONE NUMBER OR BY NAME IF
AVAILABLE AND YOU'LL HEAR AN
AUTOMATED ANNOUNCEMENT
NOTIFYING YOU THAT THE HOST IS
ALLOWING YOU TO SPEAK.
>> SO WHEN SPEAKING PLEASE MOVE
TO A QUIET AREA AND MUTE
BACKGROUND NOISES.
WE CAN HEAR YOU CLEARLY AND FOR
EITHER METHOD OF PARTICIPATION
PLEASE DO STATE YOUR NAME AND
ADDRESS AT THE BEGINNING OF THE
COMMENTS.
>> IS THERE ANYONE PRESENT THAT
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK TO THE
COMMISSION?
>> YES, PLEASE.
>> GOOD EVENING EVERYONE.
I'M ACTUALLY THE PETITIONER.
I JUST WANTED TO MAKE SURE THAT
YOU WERE AWARE I WAS HERE.
MY EVANS MY WIFE RUTH AND I OWN
THE PARCEL SO JUST IF YOU HAVE
ANY QUESTIONS OR ANYTHING LIKE
THAT, WE'RE WE'RE HERE IF YOU
NEED THEM.
GOTCHA.
THANK YOU SIR.
ANYONE ELSE PRESENT?
I WOULD LIKE TO ADDRESS
COMMISSION SEEING NONE.
DO WE HAVE ANYBODY REMOTELY
THAT WOULD LIKE TO ADDRESS THE
COMMISSION?
>> THERE ARE NO CALLERS.
THANK YOU.
I'M GOING TO READ THE PROPOSED
MOTION WHICH IS THAT THE ANN
ARBOR CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
HEREBY RECOMMENDS THAT THE
MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL APPROVE
THE ANNEXATION AND THE R ONE A
DESIGNATION OF THIRTY FOUR
SEVENTY FOUR EAST RIVER DRIVE
HAVE SINGLE FAMILY DWELLING
DISTRICT MOVE BY COMMISSIONER
WETHERBEE AND SECONDED BY
COMMISSIONER LS DISCUSSION ANY
COMMENTS WITH RESPECT TO THE
ONE A DESIGNATION COMMISSIONER
WHICH AGAIN SINCE THESE ARE
LIKE MINIMUM TWENTY THOUSAND
SQUARE FOOT LOTS AND THIS IS A
SEVENTY THREE THOUSAND SQUARE
FOOT WHAT IT WOULD IT IS THERE
ANY HARM FOR US TO MOVE IT TO
ONE HOUR ONE E OR D I WOULD SAY
THAT THERE WOULD BE LITTLE
IMPACT TO OUR OWN DENHA THAT
WOULD PROVIDE MORE DEVELOPMENT
POTENTIAL.
THE PROPERTY OWNERS WISH TO DO
SO BUT IT WOULDN'T RESTRICT THE
AMOUNT THAT THEY WANT TO DO NOW
VERSION OF DEVELOPMENT ARWANI
WOULD ADD A MAXIMUM HOUSE SIZE
OF TWO THOUSAND SQUARE FOOT.
SO IF THAT WERE OK IF THAT WERE
REGARDLESS OF THAT SIZE SO THAT
WOULD CHANGE THE DEVELOPMENT IF
FOR SOME REASON THEY DESIRED TO
DO A LARGER HOME THAN THAT.
>> OK SO ONE D WOULDN'T HARM
WHAT THEY WANT TO DO BUT IT IT
DOES SET US UP IF THAT SEVENTY
THREE THOUSAND SQUARE FOOT LOT
WANTS TO BE SUBDIVIDED BY
FUTURO OK I WOULD LIKE TO MAKE
MOTION TO AMEND THE ORIGINAL
MOTION TO SWITCH IT FROM ONE TO
TO OUR ONE DE OH I SUPPOSE WE
WILL MOVE INTO DISCUSSION.
OH I NEED A SECOND BUT I WOULD
ALSO FIRST LIKE TO ASK THE
PETITIONERS IF THEY WOULD BE
FRIENDLY TO THAT KIND
OF REQUEST OF MY MOTION.
OH THE FLOOR SHOULD EITHER
SECOND IT OR NOT.
SECONDED BY COUNCIL MEMBER
WE'RE IN DISCUSSION AND I WOULD
LIKE TO ASK THE PETITIONER
ACTUALLY IF THEY WOULD BE
FRIENDLY.
SO NOW WE'RE IN DISCUSSION
OF THAT PROPOSED MOTION
OF REZONING AS OPPOSED TO AH
ONE EH BUT TO R ONE D RIGHT
CREATES A LITTLE MORE
FLEXIBILITY TO BUILD DUPLEXES,
TRY PLEXUS THINGS OF THAT
NATURE.
>> SO I MEAN I BELIEVE MR.
LEONARD MENTIONED AS LONG AS
THERE'S NO ADDITIONAL
STRUCTURAL REQUIREMENTS OR
RESTRICTIONS ON THE PROPERTY AS
OPPOSED TO ONE WE'RE TOTALLY
FINE WITH GOCHA.
>> THANK YOU.
ANY OTHER DISCUSSIONS PROVIDES
MORE FLEXIBLE LEIDY ANY CONCERN
ON STAFF'S PART WITH RESPECT TO
THE NONCONFORMITY OVER EVER
LIKE THE INCONSISTENCY IN AN
AA1?
>> A LITTLE BUT I WOULD I'D
LIKE TO POINT OUT I WAS JUST
PLATONOV UP.
I THINK THAT THERE IS AN ERROR
ON OUR STAFF REPORT THAT I WANT
TO JUST CLARIFY FOR THE
PLANNING COMMISSION.
THIS QUESTION CAME UP ACTUALLY
AT THE CITY COUNCIL.
I DON'T THINK WATER IS ACTUALLY
PRESENT FOR THE SITE EITHER.
I THINK IT HAS SANITARY SEWER
BUT IT DOESN'T HAVE WATER NOR
NOR STORM SEWER.
I'LL JUST PROVIDE THAT CONTEXT.
IT'S STILL DEVELOPABLE AND THAT
I GUESS I'LL JUST SHARE THAT
THE THIS QUESTION CAME UP IN
REGARDS TO THE RIVERSIDE PARCEL
THAT CITY COUNCIL AND R1 D
WOULD ACTUALLY HELP WITH
AMORTIZING THE COSTS IF IF THE
PETITIONER OR SOMEBODY DECIDED
TO RUN WATER INFRASTRUCTURE TO
THAT SITE SPREADING THAT COST
WHICH CAN BE SIGNIFICANT OVER
MULTIPLE HOMES MAKES MORE
SENSE.
THAT SAID, AT A LOWER DENSITY
IT PROBABLY INCREASES THE
CHANCE THAT THE CITY MIGHT BE
ABLE TO ACCOMMODATE SOMETHING
WITH A WAIVER FOR A WHILE
SIMILAR TO THE CONVERSATION
ABOUT STORM SEWER LIKE THE
DENSER IT IS AND MORE
IMPERVIOUS SURFACE PROBABLY THE
MORE DIFFICULT IT IS TO ADDRESS
STORMWATER WITHOUT CONNECTION
TO THE CITY'S SYSTEM, THE LESS
DENSE IT IS, THE MORE LIKELY IT
IS THAT YOU WOULD BE ABLE TO
ACCOMMODATE STORMWATER RUNOFF
WITHOUT CONNECTING TO THE CITY
SYSTEM.
SO SO I JUST I JUST WANT TO PUT
THAT IN THE CONTEXT.
I DON'T THINK THAT THAT SHOULD
I DON'T THINK IT HAS ANY
SIGNIFICANT IMPACT ON OUR ONE D
ACTUALLY IT IMPROVES PROBABLY
THE POTENTIAL LONG TERM TO
FINANCE SOMETHING SHOULD
SOMEBODY CHOOSE TO DO THAT IN
ADVANCE OF SOME YET TO BE
IDENTIFIED CITY CAPITAL
IMPROVEMENT?
YES.
COMMISSIONER MILLS, BASED ON
WHAT YOU WERE JUST SAYING
THOUGH ABOUT THE WELL IS IT
BEING ONE D JEOPARDIZE THE WELL
,FIRST OF ALL, DO WE KNOW IF
THERE'S A WELL ON THE SITE
CURRENTLY THERE'S NOT A WELL ON
THE SITE CURRENTLY AND YOU IF
YOU WANT TO BUILD A HOUSE NEED
WATER.
>> SO THE QUESTION IS IF IT'S
OUR ONE D DOES THAT JEOPARDIZE
THE ABILITY TO ACTUALLY GET I
DON'T BELIEVE IT WOULD THE
PATTERN OF DEVELOPMENT THAT
HAPPENS THERE.
SO AGAIN I THINK AS THE
PETITIONER INDICATED AS LONG AS
IT DOESN'T THEY PROBABLY HAVE
PLANS FOR IT.
I DON'T I'M NOT FAMILIAR WITH
THOSE BUT IF THOSE PLANS ARE
FOR A RELATIVELY MODEST SCALE
OF DEVELOPMENT, A HOME THAT'S
PROBABLY GOING TO INCREASE THE
CHANCES I CAN'T SPEAK FOR THE
PUBLIC SERVICES ADMINISTRATOR
BY ANY STRETCH BUT MY
PERCEPTION IS IF THAT WERE
DEVELOPED INTO TEN HOMES UNDER
THE SMALLER LOT FOR R&D THAT
MIGHT BE MORE DIFFICULT TO
DEVELOP THE WELL CAPACITY TO
SUPPORT THAT THAT MUCH AND FOR
THAT MANY HOMES.
>> SO THEN IT MAKES IT EASIER
TO FINANCE EXTENDING THE WATER
INFRASTRUCTURE.
SO OK BUT TO BE CLEAR,
EXPANDING WATER INFRASTRUCTURE
IS VERY COSTLY LIKE I DON'T
KNOW THE SPECIFICS FOR THIS ONE
BUT I MEAN YOU COULD BE TALKING
HALF A MILLION DOLLARS
DEPENDING ON WHERE AND HOW FAR
YOU'RE TAKING IT.
SO I THINK I WANT TO BE CLEAR
THAT DEFINITELY MORE HOUSES
HELPS WITH THAT.
IT MAY STILL NOT MAKE IT PENCIL
OUT.
>> OK, GREAT.
THANK YOU THAT THIS DISCUSSION
DOESN'T CHANGE LIKE WHAT YOU
SAID ABOUT BEING COOL WITH R&D.
WELL I JUST WANT TO MAKE SURE
SO SO MY WIFE AND I MEAN THIS
IS THE PLAN OBVIOUSLY THINGS
CHANGE BUT WE WE DO NOT PLAN
SUBDIVIDING REALLY AT ANY POINT
UNTIL HOPEFULLY BY ONE HUNDRED
YEARS FROM NOW.
THIS IS YOU KNOW THIS IS A LONG
TERM THING FOR US.
SO WE'RE ONLY PLANNING TO PUT A
SINGLE FAMILY RESIDENCE ON IT.
THE PLAN IS TO PUT A WELL IN
AND THEN TO TIME TO SANTURCE.
>> WE'RE OBVIOUSLY PERMITTING
THE ANNEXATION PROCESS.
OK, THANK YOU ALL SO THANK YOU
SO MUCH.
>> THANK YOU.
THE ONE COMMENT I WILL MAKE
ABOUT WHERE THE PARCEL
PLACEMENT IS AND RELATIVE TO
THE NEIGHBORHOOD CONTEXT I'M
REFERRING THERE'S A BOOK CALLED
MISSING MIDDLE HOUSING.
IT'S BY DANIEL PAROLA AND IT
TALKS ABOUT HOW YOU COULD DO
YOU KNOW, KIND OF TRANSITIONARY
ZONES ON A BLOCK.
RIGHT.
SO IF IT'S TRADITIONALLY SINGLE
FAMILY YOU COULD HAVE MORE
GRADUATED KIND OF LIKE LET'S
DENSIFY MAYBE THE CORNER AND SO
LIKE MAYBE KEEP SINGLE FAMILY
KIND OF IN THE CENTER.
HOW DO WE CREATE INCREMENTAL
KIND OF IMPROVEMENTS?
MY ONE POINT OF KIND OF LIKE
CONSIDERATION IT'S NOT SAY NOT
IN SUPPORT OF KIND OF WHAT'S
HAPPENING HERE, WHAT ARE THE
THINGS WE SHOULD THINK ABOUT IS
THE LOCATION OF THIS PARTICULAR
PARCEL IS KIND OF LIKE IN THE
CENTER OF , YOU KNOW, KIND
OF THAT NEIGHBORHOOD.
>> SO IT'S KIND OF OPPOSITE
OF WHAT THAT BOOK KIND
OF SPECIFIES IS LIKE HEY, WHAT
IS KIND OF THE RESPONSIBLE KIND
OF TRANSITION OF ZONES?
RIGHT.
AND SO SHOULD WE HAVE YOU KNOW,
OUR OUR ONE D FOR EXAMPLE KIND
OF ON THE BLOCK AND AREA NOW
AGAIN BASED ON THE INTENT
OF THE PARTIES, I DON'T THINK
THIS IS GOING TO BE A MATERIAL
CONCERN BUT ALSO ONE OF THE
THINGS THAT I THINK ABOUT IS
YOU KNOW, HAS SUFFICIENT AND
THIS IS GOING TO CITY COUNCIL
SO I IMAGINE, YOU KNOW,
SUFFICIENT NOTICE AND
CONSIDERATION WILL BE HAD BY
THE NEIGHBORS AS WELL.
BUT IF WE MAKE THAT KIND OF A
CHANGE AT THE TABLE, I JUST
WANT TO MAKE SURE THAT
APPROPRIATE PUBLIC DUE PROCESS
IS COMPLETED IN THAT RESPECT.
>> SO JUST YOU KNOW, FOOD FOR
THOUGHT I'D AGAIN I'M NOT
AGAINST THE IDEA OF CREATING
ADDITIONAL DENSITY.
RIGHT.
WE WANT TO ENCOURAGE DUPLEX AND
INFILL DEVELOPMENT THAT CREATES
MORE HOUSING.
BUT YES, COMMISSIONER MILLS, I
JUST WANT TO CLARIFY THAT THIS
IS STILL A SINGLE FAMILY ZONE
SO DUPLEXES NOT ALLOWED THAT IT
WOULD ONLY ALLOW FOR MORE
SINGLE FAMILY DETACHED HOMES,
EACH ONE OF WHICH COULD
HAVE AN
TWO BUT IT WOULD NOT IT DOESN'T
ALLOW FOR DUPLEXES IN CASE IN
THE CONVERSATION YOU SAID THEY
GOT WHAT WE WANT THERE IS A
DUPLEX.
THAT'S NOT WHAT WE'RE TALKING
ABOUT.
JUST BE REAL CLEAR AND TO BE
CLEAR TO YOUR NEIGHBORS WHO
MIGHT BE LISTENING OR MAYBE
THEY'RE NOT LISTENING.
>> THANK YOU FOR THE
CLARIFICATION.
YES, WITH THAT IN MIND, DOES
ANYBODY HAVE ANY OTHER KIND
OF COMMENTS WITH RESPECT TO THE
CHANGE TO OUR ONE D RIGHT NOW
THAT'S THE MOTION WE'RE
REVIEWING SEEING NONE I THINK.
>> DO YOU WANT TO DO A ROLL
CALL VOTE?
WE COULD DO A VOICE VOTE ON THE
MODIFICATION.
OK, GOTCHA.
WITH RESPECT TO THE MOVE MOTION
TO MODIFY THIS TO AN R ONE D
ALL IN FAVOR SAY AY AY AY ALL
THOSE OPPOSED SEEING NONE.
>> THE MOTION CARRIES BACK TO
THE ORIGINAL MOTION NOW AS
AMENDED AND OUR CITY PLANNING
COMMISSION HEREBY RECOMMENDS
THAT THE MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL
APPROVE ANNEXATION AND THE R
ONE D DESIGNATION FOR THIRTY
FOUR SEVENTY FOUR EAST HURON
RIVER DRIVE.
ANY DISCUSSION WITH THAT WILL
MOVE TO ROLL CALL VOTE
COMMISSIONER WHICH YES
COMMISSIONER MILLS.
YES COMMISSIONER.
YES COMMISSIONER GISH YES.
>> COMMISSIONER CLARKE.
YES I HEARD YES COMMISSIONER.
WHETHER IT BE YES MR. ADAMS
YES.
>> COMMISSIONER LEE YES MOTION
CARRIES AS AMENDED.
>> THANK YOU.
GOOD LUCK.
THANKS.
>> ALL RIGHT.
WE ARE MOVING ON TO THE NEXT
ITEM WHICH IS THE ONE FOR TO E
HOOVER AVENUE SITE PLAN FOR
CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
APPROVAL THIS THE SITE PLAN TO
REDEVELOP TWENTY FIVE THOUSAND
SIX HUNDRED THIRTEEN SQUARE
FOOT SITE WITH A NEW FIFTY
SEVEN HUNDRED 719 SQUARE FOOT
AUTO REPAIR FACILITY, THE NEW
BUILDING AND SOME OF THE THIRTY
TWO PROPOSED VEHICULAR PARKING
SPACES ALONG WITH THE REQUIRED
SITE IMPROVEMENTS WILL BE
CONSTRUCTED IN PHASE ONE AND
THE EXISTING BUILDING WILL BE
DEMOLISHED AND THE REMAINING
REMAINING PROPOSED PARKING
SPACES WILL BE INSTALLED IN
PHASE TWO SITE INCLUDES ONE
FORTY TWO ONE FORTY FOUR ONE
FORTY SIX EAST HOOVER AVENUE
ZONED C TO BE BUSINESS SERVICE
AND WE WILL MOVE ON TO
PETITIONER PRESENTATION I
BELIEVE IN PERSON WE HAVE STEVE
BRAUER AND JEREMY GRIFFITHS,
JASON FARTMAN AND ALAN PRUS
ABOUT DAVE DAVIS.
I'M A CIVIL ENGINEER ON THE
PROJECT.
HI.
WELL I JUST HAVE A COUPLE
OF THINGS TO SAY.
AS YOU KNOW WHO ARE SHIRADO IS
AN EXISTING BUSINESS LOCATED ON
THE SOUTH SIDE OF HOOVER
BETWEEN GREEN AND MAIN.
IT'S ABOUT SEVEN HUNDRED FEET
NORTH OF THE BIG HOUSE AND HAS
BEEN IN OPERATION FOR OVER
TWENTY YEARS AS AN AUTO REPAIR
SHOP.
THE PITHOS DEVELOPMENT IS AN
EXPANSION OF THE EXISTING
BUSINESS OPERATIONS AND
INCLUDES THE CONSTRUCTION OF A
NEW NINE DAY AUTO REPAIR
FACILITY.
THE DEVELOPMENT PLANTS COMBINE
THE CURRENT PARCEL AND THE TWO
EAST ADJACENT PARCELS AS WELL
AS DEMOLISHING THE EXISTING
BUILDING AND THE TWO HOUSES.
THE SITE INCLUDES A NEW
BUILDING STORMWATER MANAGEMENT
LANDSCAPING SITE LOADING
BICYCLE PARKING AND A CURVED
PARKING LOT INCLUDING EV AND
A.D.A SPACES.
THE STORMWATER MANAGEMENT PLAN
INCLUDES BIO RETENTION AREAS
AND AN UNDERGROUND DETENTION
SYSTEM.
THE OUTLETS TO THE STORM SEWER
AND HOOVER STREET OR HOOVER
AVENUE.
THE PROJECT INTENDS TO UTILIZE
THE EXISTING SANITARY SEWER AND
WATER SERVICE LEADS NO SANITARY
SEWER FLOW MITIGATION IS
REQUIRED TRASH AND RECYCLING
WILL BE STORED IN HANDCARTS
LOCATED IN AN ENCLOSURE ON THE
SOUTH SIDE OF THE BUILDING AND
PICKED UP CURBSIDE ON A WEEKLY
BASIS.
THE DEVELOPMENT IS NOT
PROJECTED TO EXCEED RIPPON'S SO
A TRAFFIC IMPACT ANALYSIS IS
NOT REQUIRED.
THE PLAN IS TO COMPLETE THE
DEVELOPMENT IN PHASES TO
MAINTAIN THE EXISTING BUSINESS
OPERATIONS DURING CONSTRUCTION
AND WE HAVE ADDRESSED ALL
REVIEW COMMENTS WE HAVE
RECEIVED FROM THE CITY TO THIS
POINT THAT'S THANK YOU AND NOW
WE'LL GO ON TO STAFF
PRESENTATION.
MR. LEO, THANK YOU.
>> I'LL JUST SUMMARIZE SOME
OF THE HIGH POINTS OF THE STAFF
REPORT AGAIN THIS IS THE 142
EAST HOOVER AVENUE SITE PLAN.
IT IS A SITE PLAN FOR CITY
PLANNING COMMISSION APPROVAL.
AS MENTIONED, THE LOCATION IS
ON THE SOUTH SIDE OF HOOVER
BETWEEN MAIN AND GREEN.
IT IS CURRENTLY A THREE PARCEL
SITE WITH THE EXISTING NAPA
AUTO CARE PLUS TWO RESIDENTIAL
BUILDINGS ON IT.
>> IT'S A PHASED PROJECT.
THE FIRST PHASE INCLUDES
DEMOLISHING THE TWO EXISTING
HOMES AND THEN IN THAT PARKING
SPOT BUILDING A NEW AUTO REPAIR
FACILITY AND THEN IN PHASE TWO
THE EXISTING BUILDING WOULD BE
DEMOLISHED TO MAINTAIN ALMOST
SEAMLESS OPERATIONS.
THE STAFF REPORT GOES THROUGH
SOME OF THE DEVELOPMENT DETAILS
SUCH AS THE LOTERIA, THE
PROPOSED FLOOR AREA AND SO
FORTH AS WELL AS THE LANDSCAPE
PLAN.
SOME OF THE STORM WATER
MANAGEMENT SYSTEM.
THERE ARE NO OUTSTANDING
COMMENTS THAT REQUIRE SUCH PLAN
CHANGES.
THERE IS A COMMENT FROM THE
OFFICE OF SUSTAINABLE
INNOVATION REGARDING THEIR
SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW BUT OUR
STAFF REVIEW HAS CONCLUDED THAT
THE PROJECT IS IN COMPLIANCE
WITH APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT
STANDARDS AND STANDARDS
SPECIFICATIONS.
WE ARE RECOMMENDING APPROVAL
WITH TWO CONDITIONS AND THAT
RELATES TO HOW THE PROJECT WILL
MOVE FORWARD AFTER APPROVAL AND
UPON COMPLETION BECAUSE THIS IS
A SITE PLAN FOR PLANNING
APPROVAL.
HAPPY TO ANSWER ANSWER ANY
ADDITIONAL QUESTIONS BUT STAFF
IS RECOMMENDING APPROVAL
SUBJECT TO THE TWO CONDITIONS
NOTED IN THE MOTION.
>> THANK YOU.
WE'RE GOING TO MOVE ON A PUBLIC
HEARING THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY
FOR PERSONS TO SPEAK UP TO
THREE MINUTES ABOUT THIS
PARTICULAR ITEM OR FIRST CALL
ON INDIVIDUALS PRESENT AND THEN
REMOTE PARTICIPANTS TO SPEAK
DURING THIS PUBLIC HEARING
REMOTELY PLEASE PRESS STAR NINE
OF VIEWING BY PHONE OR USE A
RAISED HAND FEATURE A VIEWING
THROUGH THE WEBLINK FOR PHONE
ACCESS PLEASE EIGHT SEVEN SEVEN
EIGHT FIVE THREE FIVE TO FOUR
SEVEN AND INTERMEETING ID NINE
SEVEN SEVEN SIX SIX THREE FOUR
ONE TO SIX CITY STAFF ALSO
CALLERS THAT HAVE RAISED THEIR
HAND USING THE LAST THREE
DIGITS THE PHONE NUMBER OR THE
OR BY NAME OF AVAILABLE YOU'LL
HEAR AN AUTOMATED ANNOUNCEMENT
THAT THE HOST IS ALLOWING YOU
TO SPEAK WHEN SPEAKING PLEASE
MOVE TO A QUIET AREA MUTE ANY
BACKGROUND NOISES THAT WE CAN
HEAR YOU CLEARLY FOR EITHER
METHOD OF PARTICIPATION PLEASE
YOUR NAME AND ADDRESS AT THE
BEGINNING OF YOUR COMMENTS IS
THERE ANYONE PRESENT THAT WOULD
LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS TIME
SEEING NONE?
ARE THERE ANY REMOTE
PARTICIPANTS THAT WOULD LIKE TO
SPEAK?
>> THERE ARE NO CALLERS.
ALL RIGHT.
WITH THAT WILL CONCLUDE PUBLIC
COMMENT.
PROPOSED MOTION THAT I'M GOING
TO READ IS THE ANN ARBOR CITY
PLANNING COMMISSION APPROVES
THE ONE FOR TWO EAST HOOVER
AVENUE SITE PLAN VERSION FOUR
DATED MARCH TWENTY SECOND
TWENTY TWENTY FOUR SUBJECT TO
COMBINING ALL LOTTE'S PRIOR TO
APPLICATION FOR ANY PERMITS
EXCEPT DEMOLITION PERMITS AND
DEPOSITING TWENTY FOUR HUNDRED
FORTY DOLLARS TO THE CITY FUND
TO MITIGATE TEN CALIPER INCHES
OF LANDMARK TREE REMOVAL AT TWO
HUNDRED FORTY FOUR DOLLARS INCH
PRIOR TO THE ISSUANCE OF ANY
CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY MOVE
BY COMMISSIONER WEIS SECONDED
BY COMMISSIONER WHETHER IT BE
WE ARE IN DISCUSSION WE'D LIKE
TO KICK US OFF COUNCIL MEMBER
DIS IT IS NOT AT ALL A BAD IDEA
TO HAVE AUTO REPAIR FACILITIES
WITHIN WALKING DISTANCE
OF PLACES WHERE PEOPLE LIVE.
I WOULD LOVE TO SEE MANY PEOPLE
INCLUDING MYSELF TRANSITIONING
TO A ONE CAR HOUSEHOLD AND
THAT'S MUCH EASIER WHEN YOU CAN
WALK HOME OR CATCH A BUS HOME
AFTER YOU DROP OFF YOUR CAR AND
IF YOU'RE TAKING IT TO SAY
TOWNSHIP THAT'S TAKES LONGER.
SO NOT TO NAME ANY NAMES BUT SO
I THINK THIS IS THIS IS OF I
THINK THAT IN MANY WAYS I KNOW
THAT WE WANT TO TRANSITION AWAY
FROM A CAR CENTRIC PRESENT BUT
IT IS A TRANSITION AND SO WE
NEED TO ASSUME THAT PEOPLE WILL
GO FROM MORE CARS TO FEWER CARS
.
WHAT AND I KNOW THAT WE YOU WE
CANNOT ASK ANYTHING OF YOU.
I JUST WANT TO MENTION TO YOU
THAT GIVEN THAT THIS PLAN
INVOLVES THE DEMOLITION OF THE
EXISTING PLACE AND THE
DEMOLITION OF THE TWO ADJACENT
HOUSES, IT WOULD BE REALLY
GREAT IF YOU WOULD TRY TO
DIVERT FROM THE LANDFILL AS
MUCH AS YOU COULD OF THAT
CONSTRUCTION AND DEMOLITION
DEBRIS AND BECAUSE TWO OF THE
THINGS YOU'RE BRINGING DOWN ARE
HOUSES, THERE MIGHT BE SOME
VALUABLE MATERIALS IN THERE.
NOW I I KNOW THAT WE DO NOT
HAVE A RIGHT NOW A TERRIBLY
DEVELOPED AND ROBUST INDUSTRY
FOR DOING THAT AND SO I'M NOT
SAYING YOU SHOULD DIVERT 90
PERCENT.
I'M JUST INTERESTED IN IF YOU
WOULD BE WILLING TO SEE HOW
MUCH YOU COULD DIVERT AND
REPORT BACK TO US.
LET LET YOU KNOW WHERE DID YOU
SEND IT AND DID YOU SAW IT ON
SITE OR DID YOU TAKE IT AND
HAVE IT SORTED SOMEWHERE?
WE'RE REALLY TRYING TO GET THIS
WORK IN THE CIRCULAR ECONOMY UP
AND RUNNING AROUND CONSTRUCTION
AND DEMOLITION AND IF YOU WERE
WILLING TO TRY SOME OF THAT OUT
IT WOULD BE REALLY APPRECIATED
IN TERMS OF AN INFORMATIONAL
THING NOT SO MUCH A REQUIREMENT
THING.
SO THAT'S ALL I HAVE TO SAY.
>> THANK YOU, COMMISSIONER
WEATHERBEE.
>> SO HOW NEIGHBOR THIS IS IN
MY NEIGHBORHOOD AND I LIVE
ABOUT A BLOCK AND A HALF AWAY
AND
I THINK I CAN SPEAK FOR A
LOT OF PEOPLE TO SAY THAT THIS
WAS A BIT OF A SURPRISE ONE THE
UNIVERSITY IT DIDN'T BUY IT
WHEN THE ONE HOUSE WENT FOR
SALE.
I THINK THERE WAS AN ASSUMPTION
THAT PROBABLY THE UNIVERSITY
WOULD BUY IT AND TO THAT IT'S
NOT HOUSING AND I THINK THERE'S
A LITTLE PART OF ME IS LIKE
WHOA.
BUT THE OTHER PART OF ME IS
I'VE LIVED IN THIS NEIGHBORHOOD
FOR TWENTY EIGHT YEARS AS FAR
AS I REMEMBER THAT BUSINESS HAS
BEEN THERE AND IT'S BEEN A
REALLY GREAT BUSINESS AND
THEY'VE BEEN REALLY GOOD
NEIGHBORS.
THEY DON'T BLOCK THE SIDEWALK
WALK LIKE SOME OTHER AUTO
REPAIR FACILITIES IN THE AREA
SO THEY THERE IS ALL OF IT IS
SURROUNDED BY PARKING.
THERE IS A UNIVERSITY BUS ON
ONE SIDE AND CITY BUS ON THE
OTHER AND I CAN'T TELL YOU HOW
MANY AND I I WORK IN A BUILDING
WELL I DID WORK IN A BUILDING
RIGHT NEXT TO IT AND AND
HONESTLY I MEAN THAT'S WHAT
PEOPLE DO.
>> THEY COME TO WORK.
THEY DROP THEIR CAR OFF, THEY
GO TO WORK, THEY COME PICK
THEIR CAR UP.
>> THEY HAVE A VERY GOOD
REPUTATION.
WE'VE TAKEN OUR CARS THERE AND
WE RECOMMEND PEOPLE TO GO
THERE.
IT IS A LITTLE WEIRD BECAUSE
YOU THINK HEY, WE'RE TRYING TO
YOU KNOW THAT WOW, THIS COULD
BE HOUSING AND IT'S GOING TO BE
AN AUTO REPAIR FACILITY BUT
THAT'S FOR NOW AND IT'S A GOOD
AUTO REPAIR FACILITY AND I
THINK IT LOOKS LIKE YOU THEY'RE
GOING TO PRESUMABLY CONTINUE IN
THE SAME WAY THAT THEY HAVE IN
THE PAST MANY YEARS AND I THINK
IT'S UH IT'S ONE OF THOSE IT'S
A BIT OF A SURPRISE BUT I AM I
AM SUPPORTIVE OF IT.
>> THANK YOU, COMMISSIONER
HAMMERSCHMIDT.
>> THANK YOU.
I LIKE THE DESIGN OF THE
BUILDING A LOT.
NICE FLAT ROOF FOR FUTURE
SOLAR.
RIGHT?
I YOUR WEBSITE RIGHT AWAY AND
COUNCIL MEMBER DISH IS TALKING
ABOUT YOU KNOW, IN GENERAL I
THINK WE'RE TRYING TO MAKE MORE
MULTIMODAL CHOICES FOR PEOPLE
AND MAYBE PEOPLE DON'T LIKE YOU
.
THEY CAN TRANSITION DOWN TO ONE
CAR BUT ALSO PEOPLE WILL BE
MAKING TRANSITIONS TO EVS AND I
NOTICE YOU'RE ALSO DOING B
PARKING IS REQUIRED.
DO YOU GUYS DO REPAIRS ON EVS
OR IS THAT SOMETHING THAT
YOU'RE THINKING PLANNING,
TRAINING FOR IN THE FUTURE AND
NOT OWNING AN RV?
I DON'T EVEN KNOW WHAT THE
MAINTENANCE IS ON THAT.
>> BUT YOU KNOW YOUR PREPARING
FOR THE EV WE KNOW THAT'S
COMING RIGHT NOW.
IT'S A SMALL VERY SMALL
PERCENTAGE OF WHAT WE SEE IN
THE REPAIR.
THERE'S STILL A LOT OF THE
NORMAL CARS AND THERE WILL BE
RUNNING AROUND THAT'S GOING TO
BE GOING ON NOW.
BUT WE ARE PREPARING AND
ACTUALLY HAVE A COUPLE PEOPLE
WHO ARE VERY WELL TRAINED IN
EVEY'S.
THERE'S JUST NOT A DEMAND FOR
IT YET BUT THEY WILL NEED
MAINTENANCE.
YEAH, YOU'LL BE READY.
WE'LL BE READY.
YES.
THAT'S WHAT I WANTED TO HEAR
AND I DID LOOK AT DOING THE
BUILDING A CONDO OR APARTMENT
BUILDING THERE AND JIM CONEYS
YOU KNOW, FAMILIAR HAD MEETINGS
WITH JIM PAUL AND TALK TO STEVE
AND WE JUST KIND OF EVALUATE
THE COST, THE RETURN, ET
CETERA.
I'M HERE ON HIGH SCHOOL
GRADUATE BY MY HIGH SCHOOL
DREAM IS DOING AN AUTO REPAIR
AND IN NINETEEN EIGHTY IT
BECAME A REALITY AND IN 2002 I
BOUGHT THE BUILDING IN HOOVER.
SO WE LOVE THAT BUILDING.
WE'RE GOING TO SAVE SOME OF THE
BRICK OFF THE FACE OF IT AND
MAKE OUT THE FRONT ON THE
COUNTER.
>> OH THAT'S COOL.
WE'RE GOING TO TRY TO GET
PICTURES.
>> THERE'S A LOT OF LOVE THERE
I THOUGHT WELL THANK YOU.
GOOD LUCK.
THANK YOU COMMISSIONER ADAMS.
>> YEAH, THE SAME POINT MEETS
OUR CRITERIA FOR APPROVAL.
SO I WANT TO TAKE A MOMENT TO
ADDRESS ANOTHER ISSUE WHICH I
THINK IS RAISED IN THE STAFF
REPORT.
THERE'S A COMMENT AT THE BOTTOM
REGARDING OVERSIZE RECOMMENDED
DENIAL OF THE SITE PLAN BECAUSE
IT DOESN'T ALIGN WITH A
CARBON NEUTRALITY GOALS IN THE
EIGHT TWO ZERO PLAN.
I'VE BEEN PLANNING STAFF NOTES
IN BRACKETS THAT THE TWO ZERO
IS NOT AN APPLICABLE
DEVELOPMENT STANDARD AND THAT
COMPLIANCE ISN'T REQUIRED FOR
FOUR SITE PLAN APPROVAL.
WHEN I READ THIS I WONDERED
WHETHER THERE'S A CHANGE TO
PROCESS OR ORDINANCE OR
CODE THAT WOULD ELIMINATE THE
NEED FOR PLANNING STAFF AND
OSHA STAFF TO HAVE A BACK AND
FORTH THAT WOULD RESULT IN THAT
KIND OF COMMENT IN A IN A
DOCUMENT LIKE THIS THAT WE'RE
HAVING DISCUSSIONS ABOUT HOW TO
USE STAFF RESOURCES MORE
APPROPRIATELY IF OSHA STAFF
DOESN'T HAVE A DEVELOPMENT
STANDARD TO APPLY THAT COULD
ALTER OUR ANALYSIS OF A
PROJECT.
IT'S NOT OBVIOUS TO ME WHY
PLANNING STAFF NEEDS TO ENGAGE
THEM AT ALL AND THAT THEY NEED
TO BE REVIEWING A SITE PLAN
THAT FEELS LIKE A WASTE
OF STAFF RESOURCES ON BOTH
SIDES OF THE HOUSE AND THAT
DOVETAILS INTO THE COMMENTS WE
RECEIVED FROM MY STAFF BACK IN
FEBRUARY DURING THE WORKING
SESSION ABOUT THEY DON'T HAVE
THEY OFTEN FEEL LIKE THEY'RE
STRUGGLING TO APPLY THE RIGHT
DEVELOPMENT STANDARD WHEN
THEY'RE REVIEWING A PROJECT.
SO THIS THAT THAT COMMENT MADE
ME THINK THAT WE NEED TO MAYBE
REENGAGE IN THAT DISCUSSION
ABOUT WHAT WE WANT THEM TO DO
AND WHY WE'RE ASKING THEM TO DO
IT BECAUSE HAVING PLANNING
STAFF CHASED THEM DOWN AND HAVE
THEM REVIEWING THE SITE PLAN
WHEN THEY CAN'T IMPACT OUR
ANALYSIS OF IT.
I MEAN THAT JUST WASTED
CALORIES.
>> THAT'S ALL I HAD TO SAY.
THANK YOU, COMMISSIONER MILLS.
I DO NOT DISAGREE AT ALL AND
THINKING ABOUT THE PLACES WHERE
THERE IS DISCRETION I THINK IS
THE RIGHT USE OF RESOURCES
THERE I WILL TAKE THE
OPPORTUNITY TO JUST SAY THAT I
SPENT A LOT OF MY TIME TALKING
ABOUT RENEWABLE ENERGY.
THERE'S BEEN CHANGES TO STATE
LAW AND FEDERAL TAX CREDITS
THAT MAKE IT CHEAPER THAN EVER
TO PUT SOLAR ON YOUR FLAT ROOF
.
SO LIKE YOU'RE NOT THERE YET
AND AGAIN WE'RE NOT REQUIRING
THAT.
I'M JUST THINKING YOU YOU'VE
GOT GREAT SOUTHERN EXPOSURE
THERE TOO.
AND SO IT MIGHT HELP YOU I
DON'T KNOW HOW MUCH ENERGY
ACTUALLY OR A CAR REPAIR SHOP
USES BUT IT'S NOT PROBABLY IN
THE MIDDLE OF THE NIGHT WHICH
IS A GOOD MATCH RATE.
>> AND ALSO THE REASON THAT I
SAY IT IS PARTICULARLY IF
YOU'RE EXPANDING OR FOOTPRINT
ONE OF THE THE PAIN POINTS
OFTEN IS THAT IF YOU NEED A
LARGER CONNECTION TO THE GRID
HAVING ONSITE RENEWABLES CAN
HELP REDUCE SOME OF WHAT THAT
MIGHT BE.
SO JUST CONSIDER IT AS YOUR
KIND OF MOVING FORWARD IN THE
DESIGN PHASE.
THANK YOU.
ANY OTHER COMMENTS WITH RESPECT
TO THIS PARTICULAR SITE PLAN
AND DO PLEASE NOTE THAT THIS IS
AT OUR TABLE FOR APPROVAL.
IT DOES NOT ADVANCE TO CITY
COUNCIL.
WITH THAT I'LL ADD MY COMMENTS
TO COMMISSIONER ADAMS COMMENT
ABOUT AGAIN USING RESOURCES
EFFECTIVELY AND I THINK THAT'S
MAYBE SOMETHING THAT WE HAVE TO
DO DURING A WORKING SESSION OR
OUR PRIORITIES PLANNING ONE
OF THE CHALLENGES I THINK WE
HAVE IS WHETHER ZONING ENABLING
ACT PROVIDES FOR UTILITIES OR
ESSENTIALLY ELECTRIFICATION OR
KIND OF THE SUSTAINABILITY
ELEMENTS TO BE EVALUATED OR
GOVERNED BY I THINK ZONING.
SO THAT'S SOMETHING I THINK WE
CERTAINLY DO NEED TO DISCUSS
FURTHER.
BUT I DO AGREE WITH YOU THAT
PLAINLY SPEAKING YES, WE HEAR
IT WE SIMPLY ARE EMPOWERED TO
APPLY THE UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT
CODE AS IT CURRENTLY STANDS AND
WITH THAT IT DOES COMPLY WITH
ALL OF THE STANDARDS.
SO WITH THAT IN MIND, I THINK
IF THERE'S NO FURTHER COMMENTS
I WILL GO TO A ROLL-CALL VOTE.
>> THANK YOU.
MOTION AS PRESENTED FOR
APPROVAL WITH THE TWO
CONDITIONS.
COMMISSIONER WHITE YES.
COMMISSIONER MILLS YES.
COMMISSIONER HAMMERSCHMIDT.
YES.
COMMISSIONER.
YES, COMMISSIONER CLERK YES.
MR WETHERBEE YES.
MR ADAMS.
YES, COMMISSIONER.
>> YES.
THE AYES HAVE IT.
GOOD LUCK.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
YEAH OF COURSE.
>> ALL RIGHT.
WE ARE MOVING ON TO AGENDA ITEM
NUMBER TEN OTHER BUSINESS IS
GOING TO BE THE PLANNING
COMMISSION SUBCOMMITTEE
ASSIGNMENTS SO WHO MR. LUNNER?
YEAH, SO A COUPLE NEW FACES
HERE IT BEEN A MINUTE SINCE
WE'VE REVISITED OUR COMMITTEES.
WE TYPICALLY DO THIS ON AN
ANNUAL BASIS.
WE HAVE NOT DONE IT SINCE.
COMMISSIONER, WHETHER OR BE
REJOINED THE FOLD AND
COMMISSIONER ADAMS HAS JOINED
THE FOLD.
>> SO THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY
FOR YOU AS THE COMMISSION TO
SEE WHO WANTS TO DO MORE WORK
AND WHAT CAPACITIES AND SO THIS
IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR US TO
MODIFY OUR COMMITTEES.
I THINK I ATTACH THE CURRENT
COMMITTEE STRUCTURE FOR YOUR
BENEFIT.
>> I WOULD NOTE THAT
COMMISSIONER SAUV WAS ON THE
ORDINANCE REVISIONS COMMITTEE
AND SO THAT IS ONE COMMITTEE
WHERE WE HAVE CURRENTLY THREE
COMMISSIONERS FOR OUR
COMMISSIONER ADAMS AND
COMMISSIONER.
WHETHER IT BE I THINK I HAVE
SHARED SORT OF A SUMMARY
OF WHAT THE VARIOUS COMMITTEES
DO WHO WANTS TO BE ON WHAT AND
IF NOBODY WANTS TO CHANGE
COMMISSIONER ADAMS AND
COMMISSIONER, WHETHER IT BE
WHERE CAN I PENCIL YOU IN?
IS THERE AN OPENING AN
ORDINANCE?
YEAH.
THAT THAT THAT IS A COMMITTEE
AND AGAIN IT HAS TRADITIONALLY
BEEN FOR MEMBERS IT COULD BE
MORE BUT I THINK HAVING AT
LEAST FOUR WOULD BE TERRIFIC.
I WILL BE HAPPY TO VOLUNTEER
FOR THAT.
>> I FEEL LIKE COMMISSIONER
ADAMS WOULD BE GREAT TO GIVE IT
OK.
>> UM COMMISSIONER WEATHERBEE
OH SO ANYTHING STRIKE YOUR
FANCY UH, I WOULD I ASSUME THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN REVIEW IS
FULL OF UH FULL BUT
THERE IS A
LOT OF OPPORTUNITY ON THAT
COMMITTEE.
SO I WOULD SAY IF SOMETHING
YOU'RE INTERESTED UH THAT'S
SOMETHING I'M INTERESTED IN OR
TRANSPORTATION OR ENVIRONMENT
OR I COULD DO ZIEBA SINCE I'D
DONE IT BEFORE IF THAT WAS
NEEDED.
>> BUT BUT THAT WOULD MAYBE BE
LESS OF THE ONE I'D WANT.
BUT IT'S ALSO FINE IF THAT'S
THE ONE THAT I END UP WITH.
>> YEAH.
SO FOR THE TIME BEING UM SO
COMMISSIONER DISH HAS BEEN
LISTENING TO THE ENVIRONMENTAL
COMMISSION.
COMMISSIONER LEE YOU'VE BEEN
LISTENING TO THE TRANSPORTATION
COMMISSION ALTHOUGH YOU YOU'RE
NOT VERY FORTHCOMING WITH
SHARING REPORTS.
>> I HAVE TO SAY IT'S BECAUSE I
THINK IT HAPPENS ONCE A MONTH.
OK, SO I'M SORRY TO CALL YOU.
I JUST THINK YOU SHOULD REPORT
I DON'T REMEMBER.
OKAY MAN IT'S LIKE THAT RIGHT.
I'M SORRY.
YEAH YEAH.
I HAVEN'T HEARD ABOUT THE
COPPER ORDINANCE.
YEAH SORRY I WAS THINKING OUT
LOUD AND I SHOULD HAVE DONE
THAT SO FOR THE TIME BEING I
GUESS I'M HEARING COMMISSIONER
ADAMS FOR ADDED TO THE
ORDINANCE PROVISIONS
COMMISSIONER WHETHER IT BE
ADDED TO THE COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
STEERING OR SUBCOMMITTEE
I'M
GOING TO HAVE TO STEP BACK FROM
THE ZIBA APPOINTMENT AS MUCH AS
I'VE ACTUALLY REALLY ENJOYED
IT.
>> SO IF THERE'S ANYBODY ELSE
THAT WOULD LIKE TO DO THAT
YEAH.
>> WEDNESDAYS ONCE A MONTH SO
MUCH RATHER BE SO BETSY BAILEY
IS ON IS JUST JUST TO SET WITH
THE PLANNING COMMISSION.
IT IS HELPFUL TO HAVE THIS BODY
SORT OF ANOINT A MEMBER FOR
THAT BUT ULTIMATELY THAT IS A
COUNCIL APPOINTMENT UNLIKE
REPRESENTATIONS TO THE
COMMITTEES WHICH YOU ARE THE
SOLE DECIDER OF THAT.
SO IF THAT'S OF INTEREST WE
COULD ALSO MODIFY THAT FROM
COMMISSIONER CLARK.
WE WOULD SUBMIT A RESIGNATION
TO THE TO THE CLERK'S OFFICE
FROM THE ZONING BOARD
OF APPEALS AND THEN
COMMISSIONER, WHETHER IT BE YOU
WOULD SUBMIT AN APPLICATION AND
I WOULD LET THEM KNOW THAT AS A
PLANNING COMMISSIONER
REPRESENTATIVE, WE APPRECIATE
THAT APPOINTMENT FOR THEIR
CONSIDERATION FOR CONSISTENCY
BETWEEN THE TWO PARTS.
>> I MEAN I'M HAPPY TO DO THAT
AGAIN.
>> I FEEL LIKE WE'RE COMING
FULL CIRCLE.
I KNOW THAT.
UH, BUT I TURN THINGS UP AND UM
UNLESS THERE'S ANY OTHER
CHANGES, I WOULD PROPOSE A
MOTION THAT THE PLANNING
COMMISSION MAY MAKE A MOTION
SECOND AND YOU VOTE ON THOSE
MODIFICATIONS TO ADD OR WHETHER
IT BE TO THE COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
SUBCOMMITTEE, MR. ADAMS TO THE
ORDINANCE PROVISIONS COMMITTEE
AND THAT WE WILL PURSUE
APPOINTMENT TO THE ZONING BOARD
OF APPEALS FOR COMMISSIONER
WHETHER IT BE AS WELL.
DO YOU WANT TO GO BACK TO I
WOULD SAY YOU CAN SAY NO TO
WELL I JUST I KNOW THAT A LOT
OF PEOPLE MIGHT WANT THE COMP
PLAN.
>> I DON'T KNOW HOW THERE'S A
LOT OF PEOPLE ON IT NOW.
I FEEL SORRY EVERYBODY'S
INTERESTED IS ON THERE IS IT I
MEAN HAVING SIX PEOPLE FROM
THIS BODY ON THERE IS THAT IT'S
SO YEAH.
>> JUST I MEAN SURE I MEAN
THAT'S FINE WITH ME BUT TO BOTH
BUT THE MEETING STRUCTURE IS
YOU KNOW IT'S EVERY OTHER MONTH
ON THE ON TUESDAY ON OUR
REGULAR MEETING TIME FOR THE
REGULAR MEETING RIGHT FOR
TUESDAY.
YEAH EVERY OTHER MONTH AT WELL
IT'S THAT I SEE IT'S THE OH I
SEE WHAT YOU'RE SAYING I'M JUST
SAYING IT'S THE SAME TIME YOU
MEET FOURTH WEEK EVERY OTHER
MONTH.
>> YEAH BLAH BUT THAT IS A BIG
COMMITTEE IT'S ALSO THE MORE
MEMBERS WE HAVE THE MORE I CAN
ASK YOU TO HELP GET WORD OUT ON
SURVEYS THE MORE I CAN ASK FOR
PARTICIPATION AT WORKSHOPS.
I DON'T HAVE A PROBLEM WITH
THAT BEING LARGER IF THAT'S AN
AREA OF INTEREST FOR AS WELL.
>> IT'S DEFINITELY SOMETHING
I'M INTERESTED IN BUT I YEAH
BUT I WOULD SUGGEST YOU DO BOTH
OK I WOULD JUST DO ALL THE
COMMITTEES JUST LOADABLE SO
IT'S EVERY TUESDAY OF YOUR
MONTH EXCEPT ON FIVE TUESDAY
MONTHS IS TAKEN NO.
YES.
ONE TWO IS WEDNESDAY.
>> SHE WOULDN'T BE AN HOUR OR A
SECRET SORRY I'M SORRY OR QUBA
X Y Z SURELY YOU HAVE A OH YES
SCHIMMEL'S I'M TRYING TO READ
BODY LANGUAGE AND ALSO FEELING
LIKE MAYBE WE SHOULD ALSO SAY
IS THERE ANYBODY ELSE THAT
WANTS TO BE ON ZIBA B K I I
LOOKED AT IT I CANNOT SAY YES
TO ANOTHER MEETING BUT I WOULD
JUST SAY WE IT'S BEEN OK IT'S
REALLY HELPFUL ESPECIALLY LIKE
WITH OUR C LIKE THERE'S THINGS
THAT COME UP THAT GET BROUGHT
HERE SO WE CAN FIGURE OUT WHERE
WE NEED TO CHANGE THE THE
ORDINANCE SO I WOULD JUST IN
CASE YOU FELT LIKE YOU NEEDED
TO BE SAVED I WAS TRYING TO SAY
LIKE THAT WAS NOT THAT WAS THE
FOURTH THING THAT CAME OUT
OF YOUR MOUTH IN TERMS OF WHAT
YOU WERE INTERESTED IN AND I
WANTED TO RECOGNIZE THAT.
THANK YOU.
I MEAN I I WAS ON IT BEFORE SO
I KNOW WHAT IT IS AND IT WOULD
BE FINE.
SO I HAVE NO I MEAN IT'S IT'S
INTERESTING YOU HAD SOME JUST
SO I GOT EMOTIONAL BEFORE SHE
CHANGES YOUR MIND QUIT OK, MR.
LOTTER, CAN I GET A QUICK
SUMMARY OF WHERE WE'RE AT AS
FAR AS THE CHANGES GO?
YOU'D BE PROPOSING TO MODIFY
THE BOARD AND COMMISSION
MEMBERSHIP TO ADD MR. ADAMS TO
THE ORDINANCE PROVISIONS
COMMISSION?
MR. ADAMS THAT IS THE FOURTH
TUESDAY OF EVERY OTHER MONTH
CURRENTLY THAT'S THE MEETING WE
WOULD BE ADDING COMMISSIONER
WETHERBEE TO THE COMPREHENSIVE
PLAN THE SUBCOMMITTEE MEETING
THAT IS A FOURTH TUESDAY
MEETING EVERY OTHER MONTH THAT
HAPPENS TO BE I CALL FROM THE
ORACY AND WE WOULD BE
IDENTIFYING WHETHER B AS THE
REPRESENTATIVE FROM THE
PLANNING COMMISSION TO THE
ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS THAT
WOULD BE SUBJECT TO
COMMISSIONER WHETHER THE
COMMISSIONER OR THE CLERK
RESIGNING FROM THE ZONING BOARD
OF APPEALS TO ACCOMMODATE HER
SCHEDULE.
COMMISSIONER, WHETHER IT BE
APPLYING AND THE MAYOR AND
COUNCIL FINDING COMMISSIONER
WHETHER IT BE A SUITABLE
CANDIDATE.
>> GOT IT.
THANK YOU FOR THAT SUMMARY.
DO I HAVE A MOTION TO APPROVE
THAT COMMISSIONER WHICH TO HAVE
A SECOND COUNCIL MEMBER DISH
GREAT.
>> I SUPPOSED WE WERE
DISCUSSING YEAH.
DISCUSSION THEN A VOICE VOTE
WOULD BE FINE.
>> OK, GOT IT.
ANY OTHER FURTHER COMMENTS.
>> GOOD OK GREAT.
WE'LL GO TO A VOICE VOTE FOR
ALL THOSE IN FAVOR SAY AY AY I
ALL THOSE OPPOSE NONE MOTION
CARRIES.
>> THANK YOU.
WE'RE GOING TO MOVE ON TO
AGENDA NUMBER ELEVEN WHICH IS
PUBLIC COMMENT.
THIS IS A SECOND OPPORTUNITY
FOR PERSONS TO SPEAK UP TO
THREE MINUTES ABOUT AN ISSUE
THAT IS NOT LISTED AS A PUBLIC
HEARING ON THIS AGENDA.
WELL, FIRST CALL ON INDIVIDUALS
PRESENT AND THEN REMOTE
PARTICIPANTS DURING THIS
HEARING REMOTELY PLEASE PRESS
STAR NINE IF LISTENING BY PHONE
OR USE THE RAISED HAND FEATURE
ON THE WEB LINK FOR PHONE
ACCESS, PLEASE CALL EIGHT SEVEN
SEVEN EIGHT FIVE THREE FIVE TO
FOUR SEVEN AND INTERMEDIATED
NINE SEVEN SEVEN SIX SIX THREE
FOUR ONE TO DO SIX TO STAFF
WILL SELECT CALLERS THAT HAVE
RAISED THEIR HAND USING THE
LAST THREE YEARS OF THE PHONE
NUMBER OR BY NAME.
IF AVAILABLE YOU'LL HEAR AN
AUTOMATED ANNOUNCEMENT THAT THE
HOST IS ALLOWING YOU TO SPEAK
AND WHEN SPEAKING PLEASE MOVE
TO A QUIET AREA MUTE ANY
BACKGROUND NOISES SO WE CAN
HEAR YOU CLEARLY FOR EITHER
METHOD OF PARTICIPATION.
PLEASE STATE YOUR NAME AND
ADDRESS AT THE BEGINNING
OF YOUR COMMENTS AND IS THERE
ANYONE PRESENT THAT WOULD LIKE
TO SPEAK TO A PUBLIC SEEING
NONE.
>> ALL RIGHT.
IS THERE ANYONE THAT WOULD LIKE
TO ADDRESS THE COMMISSION
REMOTELY?
THERE ARE NO ZOOME CALLERS.
>> GOT IT AND I WILL WITH THAT
WILL CLOSE THE PUBLIC COMMENT
IS THERE I'M GOING TO MOVE ON
TO AGENDA NUMBER TWELVE.
IS THERE ANY COMMISSION
PROPOSED BUSINESS?
>> YES, MR. LUNNER ETHNICALLY I
AM NOT A COMMISSIONER BUT THANK
YOU FOR THE OPPORTUNITY.
>> I DO WANT TO SHARE A
PROPOSED ORDINANCE CHANGE THAT
I HAVE FORWARDED TO THE CITY
COUNCIL THAT IS GOING THROUGH
THE REVIEW PROCESS THAT IT IS
NOT YET ON SCHEDULE.
I ANTICIPATED BEING SCHEDULED
THEN AN UPCOMING AGENDA.
YOU RECALL LAST YEAR WE SPENT A
COUPLE A COUPLE OF TIMES GOING
OVER OUR BYLAWS AND SOME OF THE
CHANGES THAT YOU REQUESTED
NECESSITATE SOME CHANGES TO
CHAPTER EIGHT OF THE CITY
CODE .
THAT IS THE CHAPTER THAT
ESTABLISHES THE PLANNING
COMMISSION AND IT SPECIFICALLY
ESTABLISHED THE REQUIREMENT
THAT A SIX AFFIRMATIVE
REQUIREMENT WAS REQUIRED TO
ADVANCE ANY PETITION.
YOUR PROPOSED BYLAWS CHANGES
SUGGESTED REVISING THAT TO
FIVE.
THOSE BYLAWS CAN'T BE ADOPTED
UNTIL THAT ORDINANCE IS CHANGED
AND SO I'VE FORWARDED THAT
CHANGE WHILE DOING SO BECAUSE
OF THE SERENDIPITY OF MY LONG
DELAY IN FOLLOWING UP WITH THAT
RESPONSIBILITY, THE CITY
COUNCIL DID PASS A SERIES
OF RESOLUTIONS DIRECTING SOME
POTENTIAL CHANGES TO CONSIDER
TO OUR PROCESS AROUND A VARIETY
OF ACTIVITIES.
ONE OF THOSE WAS TO CONSIDER
BYPASSING THE PLANNING
COMMISSION IN THE CONSIDERATION
OF OWNER INITIATED ANNEXATION
AND ZONING FOR A SINGLE FAMILY
PROPERTIES.
THAT SAME CHAPTER REQUIRED THAT
ANY ZONING PETITION ADVANCE
THAT ADVANCE TO THE CITY
COUNCIL REQUIRE A CONSIDERATION
AND A RECOMMENDATION BY THE
PLANNING COMMISSION I INCLUDED
IN THOSE PROPOSED CHANGES THAT
PROPERTIES THAT ARE BEING
ANNEXED BY A PROPERTY OWNER
THAT ARE UNDER TWO ACRES IN
SIZE AND ARE BEING PROPOSED FOR
ANY R ONE OR TWO ZONING COULD
PROGRESS STRAIGHT TO THE CITY
COUNCIL FOR
CONSIDERATION.
SO IT'S A IT'S KIND OF A WEIRD
THING BECAUSE IT DOES IMPACT
SOME OF THE BUSINESS THAT YOU
DO.
IT'S RESPONSIVE TO THOSE
RESOLUTIONS THAT ARE CONSIDERED
BY THE CITY COUNCIL.
BUT IF THE CHANGE OUTSIDE
OF THE UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT
CODE , IF IT'S PROCESS CHANGE
IN CHAPTER EIGHT, WHICH IS THE
ORGANIZATION AND THAT'S WHY IT
WAS PRESENTED DIRECTLY TO THE
CITY COUNCIL AS OPPOSED TO
THROUGH THE PLANNING
COMMISSION.
BUT I DO WANT TO MAKE YOU AWARE
OF IT IF THERE'S ANY QUESTIONS
OR CONCERNS YOU HAVE ABOUT
THAT, I'M HAPPY TO ADDRESS THAT
WHETHER THAT MEANS PAUSING THAT
SHARING THAT INFORMATION WITH
THE CITY COUNCIL WHAT HAVE YOU.
BUT I WANTED TO MAKE SURE I
DELETED THAT FOR YOU BEFORE
THAT IT PROCEEDED TO A CITY
COUNCIL AGENDA.
GOT TO THANK YOU, COMMISSIONER,
WHICH SO IF THE PLAN GETS RID
OF THE R ONE DESIGNATION, WHAT
DOES THAT HOW DOES THAT IMPACT
WHAT YOU HAVE PROPOSED?
>> THAT'S A GOOD QUESTION.
WE WOULD HAVE TO IF IF THE
ZONING FRAMEWORK THAT RESULTS
FROM WHATEVER THE COMPLAINT
DOESN'T INCLUDE OUR ONE OF OUR
TWO WE WOULD IT WOULD RENDER
THAT EXCEPTION BASICALLY EN
VOID BECAUSE WE WOULDN'T HAVE
ANYTHING THAT MET THAT CRITERIA
BUT WOULDN'T SO IT WOULD IT
WOULD BE AN ORPHAN IN THE CITY
CHARTER THEN BECAUSE IT DID NOT
END WELL I'M SORRY THE CITY
CODE SO IT'LL UNENFORCEABLE
RULE CHANGE BECAUSE PART
OF CHANGING THE THE CITY
CHARTER DOESN'T HAVE TO GO FOR
A VOTE.
THEY JUST THE CITY CODE DOESN'T
HAVE TO GO FOR THOSE JUST
ZONING TO STOP THE COUNCIL.
THAT WAS MY BIG THING IS LIKE
WE HAVE THIS ARTIFACT THAT
WOULD BE IN THERE OK, THANK
YOU.
>> WHAT DOES THE TIMELINE LOOK
LIKE, MR. LUNNER FOR SOMETHING
LIKE THIS?
I JUST BROADLY IT COULD
PROGRESS.
>> I'D HAVE TO I PROBABLY PUT
IT IN FOR THE MAY SIT SIXTH OR
SEVENTH.
>> I FORGET THE COUNCIL MEETING
THE FIRST COUNCIL MEETING IN
MAY SO IT COULD IF ABSENT ME
CHANGING ANYTHING AND IT MAKING
IT THROUGH THE REVIEW PROCESS
OF THE ATTORNEY'S OFFICE IN THE
CITY ADMINISTRATOR IT WOULD
APPEAR ON THAT AGENDA FOR FIRST
READING AND BECAUSE IT'S NOT A
ZONING CHANGE IT WOULD PROCEED
IT COULD PROCEED TO A SECOND
READING AND PUBLIC HEARING AT
THE NEXT MEETING TYPICALLY THE
ZONING ACTIONS REQUIRE ABOUT A
MONTH DELAY IN ORDER FOR US TO
MEET THE STATUTORY REQUIREMENTS
OR NOTICE IT WOULDN'T BE A
ZONING ACTION.
IT WOULD BE JUST AN ORDINANCE
CHANGE THOUGH I WOULD THE
TIMING COULD RESULT IN THE
CHANGE BEING EFFECTIVE AROUND
THE END OF MAY EARLY JUNE.
>> GOT IT.
THANK YOU.
ALL RIGHT.
AND THEN I'M SORRY THREE UM ONE
OF THE THINGS THAT I ACTUALLY
WANTED TO BRING UP SIMILAR TO
THAT WAS COMMISSIONER ADAM SENT
ME A GOOD EMAIL ABOUT ONE
OF THE ITEMS THAT CITY COUNCIL
HAS ACTUALLY PASSED AND THAT IS
THE RESOLUTION TWENTY FOUR DASH
ZERO FIVE ONE ONE.
IT'S TO APPLY LOCAL ZONING AND
LAND USE REGULATIONS IN A
MANNER THAT SUPPORTS HOUSING
DEVELOPMENT AT ALL INCOME
LEVELS AND HOW THAT ACTUALLY
CHANGES SOME OF THE
DELIBERATIONS THAT WE HAVE
HERE.
AND SO I JUST WANTED TO PUT
THAT ON THE RADAR FOR FOLKS.
COMMISSIONER ADAMS, I DON'T
KNOW IF YOU WANT TO SPEAK A
LITTLE FURTHER TOWARDS THAT AND
OR ACTUALLY CIRCULATE.
I THINK I DID APPRECIATE THE
EMAIL THAT YOU SENT WHICH AGAIN
DOES HELP TO KIND OF FRAME THE
ISSUE AT HAND OF HOW WE
EVALUATE PROJECT.
>> YEAH, I MEAN I SPENT A
PORTION OF MY VACATION MUCH TO
MY FAMILY'S CHAGRIN READING
THOSE RESOLUTIONS AND THINKING
ABOUT THEM A LOT OF THE BEFORE
RESOLUTIONS ARE NOT SELF
EXECUTING TO THE EXTENT THAT
THEY REQUIRE FURTHER ACTION BY
THE ADMINISTRATOR OR BY CITY
COUNCIL.
BUT SOME OF THE LANGUAGE IN
THERE AT LEAST AS I READ IT AND
I THINK I'M READING IT RIGHT IS
IMMEDIATELY EFFECTIVE THE
DIRECTION TO, YOU KNOW, STAFF
PLANNING ALL PARTS OF THE
PLANNING PROCESS TO PRIORITIZE
CERTAIN CHARACTERISTICS IN
CONSIDERATION OF PROJECTS WOULD
YOU KNOW, ALTER THE WAY THAT
AND I WAS JUST THINKING OF SOME
OF THE DELIBERATIONS THAT WE'VE
HAD RECENTLY REGARDING THE
PROPORTIONALITY DISCUSSION
AROUND DENSITY, THE RESOLUTIONS
AGAIN AND THE WAY I'M READING
THEM WOULD COMPLETELY FLIP THAT
ANALYSIS AROUND AND THERE THEY
DON'T WORK THAT DIRECTIVE AND
IN THAT PARTICULAR RESOLUTION
DOESN'T REQUIRE ANY ACTION.
IT JUST IT IS WHAT IT IS.
IT'S A DIRECTION BY COUNCIL TO
TO WEIGHT SOMETHING A LITTLE
DIFFERENTLY IN TERMS OF HOW WE
CONSIDER A PROJECT.
SO I WANT IT THE REASON I SENT
IT I SENT IT TO BRET AND I SENT
IT TO YOU TO TO FLAG AND MAYBE
START A DISCUSSION ABOUT HOW WE
WANT TO IMPLEMENT AS A BODY
BECAUSE IT JUST IT STRUCK ME
THAT'S IT.
>> YEAH.
NO THANK YOU.
AND AGAIN, I THINK WE TALKED
ABOUT THE UTILIZATION OF PD
OVER AT THE CHURCH STREET
PROJECT, THE INCREASE IN
DENSITY NOT BEING PROPORTIONAL
TO THE PUBLIC BENEFIT BUT THIS
DIRECTIVE ACTUALLY WOULD
INDICATE ACTUALLY THE BIGGER IT
IS THE SMALLER ACTUALLY IT
NEEDS TO REALLY AFFORD IN TERMS
OF PUBLIC BENEFIT AND THAT'S
THAT'S ONE I THINK IT'S AN APT
READING OF IT BUT I JUST FOR
AWARENESS PURPOSES I THINK IT
PROBABLY PERMEATES FROM STAFF
REVIEW I BELIEVE PROBABLY AT
THE ONSET BUT IT SHOULD HELP
THE FRAME KIND OF THE WAY WE
ALSO DISCUSS THINGS.
>> YEAH NO I I 100 PERCENT
THINK THAT WE NEED TO DISCUSS
IT.
I DON'T I DON'T AGREE THAT IT
TURNS IT ON ITS HEAD.
I THINK IT ADDS A COMPLICATING
FACTOR.
I THINK WE DO NEED TO FIGURE
OUT HOW WE HOW WE BRING THAT TO
THE PROCESS YOU KNOW TO GO BACK
TO THE CONVERSATIONS ABOUT THE
PD, WE STILL HAVE A LOT
OF STANDARDS IN THE PD THAT WE
HAVE TO BE MINDFUL OF .
I THINK WE NEED TO WE NEED TO
HAVE THOSE DISCUSSIONS AND
FRANKLY I THINK I KNOW THEY
EXIST.
I FRANKLY HAVEN'T SPENT A LOT
OF PROCESSING TIME FROM MY
PERSPECTIVE AS TO HOW THAT HOW
THAT IMPACTS THE STAFF WORK
THAT WE DO IN THE CONTEXT OF ,
YOU KNOW, FIVE PD STANDARDS.
HOW DOES THAT DIRECTIVE IMPACT
ONE OR ALL OF THOSE FIVE PD
STANDARDS?
IT DOESN'T SUPERSEDE THOSE BUT
IT MIGHT INFLUENCE HOW WE HOW
WE ADDRESS THOSE AND SO I THINK
IT IS I THINK IT'LL BE I THINK
IT'S A WORTHWHILE DISCUSSION.
I THINK BRINGING THE PLANNING
COMMISSION IN THAT DISCUSSION
TOO AS WELL BECAUSE YOU HAVE
SOME AGENCY AND HOW YOU REVIEW
THESE AS WELL.
SO I THINK THAT'S GOING TO BE
PART NOT JUST FOR ME AND MY
TEAM DOING IT IN A VACUUM AND
JUST HAVING THAT TRANSACTION AT
THE TABLE.
I THINK HOW HOW WE WANT TO
INCORPORATE IT INTO OUR PROCESS
IS GOING TO BE HELPFUL.
BUT I PROBABLY HAVE MORE
QUESTIONS THAN ANSWERS WITH IT
RIGHT NOW FOR THOSE REASONS
BECAUSE IT IS GOING TO BE A
BALANCE.
HOW I THINK I THINK SOME MIGHT
READ THAT AS DETERMINATIVE.
IT IS IT WILL IT WILL NOT AGAIN
TO EMPHASIZE CAST ASIDE THE
OTHER STANDARDS THAT WE HAVE TO
BE MINDFUL OF .
IT WILL NOT CAST A HIGH CAST
ASIDE A RELIANCE ON OUR
COMPREHENSIVE PLANNING
DOCUMENTS TO MAKE SURE THAT
WE'RE MAKING A LEGALLY
DEFENSIBLE DECISIONS.
BUT IT DEFINITELY TRANSMITS A
MESSAGE TO US THAT WE WANT THAT
TO BE PART OF THE CONSIDERATION
AND WE WANT TO TO CARRY A LOT
OF WEIGHT WHERE IT DOES APPLY.
>> SO YEAH, AND MAYBE TO
CLARIFY I'M NOT SAYING THAT THE
ORDINANCES CHANGE THE STANDARDS
FOR PD APPROVAL THAT ARE
CODIFIED INTO THE DC.
NOT AT ALL.
I'M SAYING THAT FOR EXAMPLE
WHEN CONSIDERING THE YOU KNOW,
THE NEGATIVE IMPACTS OF A
PROJECT THIS IS EXPRESSING A
LEGISLATIVE PREROGATIVE TO SAY
WELL DENSITY BUILDING AS MUCH
HOUSING AS POSSIBLE, SOMETHING
THAT WE DON'T VIEW AS SOMETHING
THAT NEEDS TO BE OFFSET BY
OTHER POSITIVE PARTS OF A
PROJECT IN ORDER TO JUSTIFY
APPROVAL OR A RECOMMENDATION
OF APPROVAL IN THE SAME WAY IN
A PRACTICE IN FEDERAL
ADMINISTRATIVE LAW, IN THE SAME
WAY THAT AN EXECUTIVE DIRECTIVE
DOESN'T CHANGE A
CONGRESSIONALLY PASSED STATUTE.
BUT AGENCIES REACT TO THAT
RIGHT ADMINISTRATED BODIES
WITHIN THE ENTIRE FEDERAL
STRUCTURE REACT WHEN WHEN THE
EXECUTIVE SAYS WE WANT YOU TO
WAIT THESE THINGS DIFFERENTLY
WHEN YOU'RE EXERCISING YOUR
DISCRETION.
SO THAT'S HOW I WAS READING IT.
I WAS READING IT AS A AS WE'RE
APPLYING THAT THAT TEST IS IN
THE UDC SOME OF THE THINGS THAT
I RECOGNIZE IS FAIRLY FAMILIAR
STANDARDS AND MODES OF ANALYSIS
IN THE PLANNING PROCESS MIGHT
CHANGE FAIRLY RADICALLY.
IT JUST DEPENDS ON WHAT WE'RE
TALKING ABOUT.
AND I THINK I WOULD SAY THAT I
THINK WE'VE HAD THAT
CONVERSATION WE'VE HAD AT THE
STAFF LEVEL YOU'VE HAD AT THIS
TABLE THAT'S BORNE OUT IN
DISCUSSIONS OVER THESE PDS.
YOU KNOW THAT'S THAT'S
SOMETHING THAT WE WE YOU KNOW,
LET'S LET'S WE CAN CONSIDER
SOME RECENT EXAMPLES, YOU KNOW,
FROM A STAFF PERSPECTIVE.
YEAH.
WE I CAN TELL YOU I GET THAT
AND THAT'S WHY WE COME TO THOSE
SAYING LIKE YEAH, OUR FACILITY
IS NOT APPROPRIATE FOR SOME
OF THESE.
THERE'S ANOTHER OPPORTUNITY TO
GO THERE AND THAT REGISTERS
WITH ME THAT YES.
AND HOUSING IS A VALUE IT'S
IT'S CLEARLY A POLICY VALUE FOR
FOR THE CITY THAT IS PART
OF THE JUSTIFICATION I THINK
WHY US AND YOU THIS TABLE
SHOULD SAY WHAT SHOULD WE
CONSIDER ANYTHING ELSE HERE
OTHER THAN WHAT THE PLAN SAYS
AND WHAT THE ZONING SAYS?
AND I THINK THE ANSWER TO THAT
AND BOTH FROM OUR PERSPECTIVE
IN THOSE PROJECTS AND YOURS IN
THE LEAST I GUESS ONE AND NOT
IN THE OTHER ARE RECENT ONES
THAT I'M THINKING OF WERE YEAH
HOUSING IS IS WE SEE THAT WE
SEE THAT POLICY DESIRE JUSTIFY
THIS ONE.
WE DIDN'T SEE IT JUSTIFY THE
OTHER ONE AND THAT'S BECAUSE I
THINK JUST AS YOU SAID, IT'S
NOT YOU'RE NOT PULLING AWAY
THOSE ORDINANCE STANDARDS.
THAT WAS ONE FACTOR TO CONSIDER
.
BUT I LIKE HOW YOU FRAMED IT.
I THINK THAT'S A CLEAR POLICY
DECISION THAT ONE OF THE THINGS
THAT YOU WILL FACE AT THIS
TABLE IS THAT SOMETIMES DENSITY
IS PERCEIVED TO BE NEGATIVELY
IMPACTFUL TO AN AREA THAT'S A
POLICY STATEMENT TO OUR COUNCIL
THAT PEOPLE MIGHT THINK THAT.
BUT FROM THE FROM YOUR
APPOINTEE
POINTERS THEY WANT
YOU PROFFERING PROJECTS THAT
DON'T LOOK AT THAT AS A
NEGATIVE.
>> OH NO.
I APPRECIATE THE DISCUSSION.
I THINK AS AN ACTION ITEM
ARISING OUT OF THIS I WOULD
ENCOURAGE COMMISSIONERS IF YOU
HAVEN'T TAKEN A LOOK TO READ
THE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
RESOLUTIONS FROM APRIL FIRST
AND THEN PERHAPS WE COULD PUT
IT ON A WORKING SESSION WHILE
IT'S FRESH SO THAT WE COULD
JUST HAVE A KIND OF AN
INCLUSIVE ENGAGEMENT AFTER
WE'VE HAD SOME TIME TO PROCESS.
>> SO YEAH, THERE ARE SOME
THINGS THAT I JUST WANT I JUST
WANT THE DEATH.
>> I WANT THE CITY
ADMINISTRATOR TO IS LEADING A
LOT OF THAT EFFORT.
>> SO THERE ARE DEFINITELY
PIECES OF THAT WILL THAT WILL
END UP AT THIS TABLE.
BUT THAT DIRECTIVE IS TO THE
CITY ADMINISTRATOR AND SO I
THINK TO THE GOAL OF TRYING TO
CONSIDER THAT IN A SORT
OF COHESIVE ORGANIZED WAY.
PART OF THAT WILL BE SOME
OF THE PRIORITIZATION THAT
COMES THROUGH THAT OFFICE AS
WELL.
>> THANK YOU, COMMISSIONER
LITCH.
>> SO PIGGYBACKING OFF OF WHAT
COMMISSIONER ADAMS HAS ALREADY
ARTICULATED, I THINK I'VE SAID
SOMETHING ALONG THESE LINES IN
SOME OF OUR CONVERSATIONS.
I WONDER IF WE CAN TAKE
AFFIRMATIVE ACTION AS WE ARE
MAKING OUR WAY BECAUSE WE KNOW
THAT THE COMP PLAN HAS SORT
OF THE THE VALUE FROM COUNCIL
TO INCREASE HOUSING ACROSS THE
CITY.
SO WE KNOW THAT THAT IS COMING.
WE JUST DON'T KNOW WHAT
RECOMMENDATIONS WE'RE GOING TO
GET FROM A PLAN.
SO STARTING TO LOOK AT THINGS
WE CAN INITIATE AT THIS TABLE
TO PREPARE OURSELVES THINGS
LIKE DO WE WANT TO HAVE A SORT
OF A NEGATIVE VIEW ON DENSITY
SO THE AIR FORCE TO THE PD
WHERE A DENSITY MIGHT BE 10 TO
13 TIMES THAT WAS THAT WAS
REVELATORY TO ME THAT IN THAT
CASE WE SAW DENSITY AS A
NEGATIVE BECAUSE OF BENEFITS
THAT WERE PROPOSED AND THE PD
DIDN'T OUTWEIGH THE CHANGE IN
THE DENSITY.
AND SO THAT WAS THAT WAS JUST
SOMETHING I'VE STRUGGLED WITH
SITTING AT THE TABLE AND SO
GIVEN THAT COUNCIL IS MOVING IN
AN AFFIRMATIVE DIRECTION, CAN
WE ADDRESS THAT OURSELVES AT
THE TABLE WITH A RECOMMENDATION
TO COUNCIL TO SAY WE'VE HEARD
YOU IN THESE FOUR RESOLUTIONS
THAT YOU'VE PASSED AND HERE'S
WHAT WE WOULD HAVE TO CHANGE IN
THE UDC THAT WE CAN CHANGE NOW
THAT WOULD HELP PERMIT THIS
INITIATIVE AND IF THAT IS
POSSIBLE GIVEN THAT STAFF IS
VERY CHALLENGED WITH TIME LIKE
HOW CAN BETTER?
YES, THEY STARTED YESTERDAY.
>> HOW DO WE GET THESE THINGS
ONTO THE WORK PLAN SO THAT
THERE'S ADEQUATE TIME TO DEBATE
AND DISCUSS IT BECAUSE WE KNOW
I'M MAKING AN ASSUMPTION BASED
ON WHAT HAS BEEN ARTICULATED
BOTH WITH THE PLAN AND AT THE
COUNCIL TABLE THAT DENSITY OR
INCREASING HOUSING IS AN
INITIATIVE.
SO HOW DO WE BEGIN OUR TREK
SIMULTANEOUS OR ARE YOU SAYING
THAT YOUR RECOMMENDATION IS
THAT WE WAIT FOR THE CITY
ADMINISTRATOR AND MR. DELACOURT
TO MEET AND MAKE
RECOMMENDATIONS BACK DOWN FROM
STAFF TO THE TABLE?
>> I'M SEEING A LITTLE BIT
OF THAT IN SOMETHING DIFFERENT.
SO THERE WILL BE A SERIES
OF THOSE RESOLUTIONS CONTAIN A
LOT OF ORGANIZATIONAL
RECOMMENDATIONS PROCESS OR
SUGGESTIONS THOSE ARE THERE ARE
SOME THERE ARE SOME ORDINANCE
CHANGES THERE THAT I DON'T
THINK ARE LIKELY TO BE
ADDRESSED IN THE COMPREHENSIVE
PLAN PROCESS ORIENTED THAT I
THINK THOSE MIX THOSE MAKE
SENSE AND THOSE WILL BE LED BY
THE CITY ADMINISTRATOR'S
OFFICE.
WE WILL HAVE A ROLE IN THAT.
YOU WILL HAVE A ROLE IN THAT.
BUT THAT WILL BE LED BY THEM.
MY AS TO THE QUESTION ABOUT
WHAT YOU CAN DO THIS TABLE I
WOULD I WOULD WE'VE BEEN HAVING
THIS CONVERSATION FOR A WHILE
AND I'M SURE IT'S FRUSTRATING
BUT I WOULD CAUTION AGAINST
TRYING TO PREDICT THE OUTCOME
OF THE COMPREHENSIVE PLAN.
ONE HUNDRED PERCENT I AGREE
WITH YOU.
THE COUNCIL'S MADE IT CLEAR AND
THERE ARE MORE SPECIFIC AD
DENSITY TO EVERY AREA OF THE
CITY FULL STOP AND SO I
ANTICIPATE THE COMPREHENSIVE
PLAN IS GOING TO DO THAT.
I ALSO THINK THAT WE COULD BE
SITTING AT THIS TABLE TRYING TO
CONCEIVE WAYS THAT WE COULD
ACHIEVE NOW THAT MIGHT BE
SLIGHTLY DIFFERENT OR DIFFERENT
PRIORITIES THAN WHAT THAT
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN MIGHT
RECOMMEND THAT WE DO SO SO
THOSE ARE THOSE ARE THE THINGS
THAT I AM SAYING THAT AND THEN
I THINK THE THIRD PIECE OF THIS
IS THE THE THAT LANGUAGE THAT
COMMISSIONER ADAMS BROUGHT UP
THAT IS NOT AN ORDINANCE
CHANGE.
THAT IS HOW WE HOW OUR BRAINS
COME TO DISCRETIONARY DECISIONS
AND WHAT ARE THOSE
DISCRETIONARY DECISIONS AND
WHAT PIECE OF THAT DISCRETION
FITS INTO A A A SET
OF REGULATIONS OR STANDARDS
BASED ON THE TYPE
OF APPLICATION THAT WE'RE
CONSIDERING.
THANK YOU.
>> I DON'T WANT TO NECESSARILY
BELABOR THE POINT I'D LOVE FOR
OTHER COMMISSIONERS TO HAVE A
CHANCE TO KIND OF GRAPPLE WITH
THAT AS WELL AND THEN RETURN TO
IT AT A WORKING SESSION.
>> DO WE HAVE ANY OTHER
COMMISSION PROPOSED BUSINESS IF
OH YES.
>> OH COMMISSIONER WILL TURN
ALL THE WAY AROUND.
>> COMMISSIONER MILLS OF COURSE
JUST TO FACILITATE EVERYONE
ELSE'S STUFF IN THERE AND IF I
DON'T KNOW THAT IT'S BEEN
CIRCULATED I'M BEHIND ON EMAIL.
>> BUT IF THOSE RESOLUTIONS
HAVE NOT BEEN GREAT SUPER I
THINK THEY'VE BEEN SENT BUT I
KNOW THAT THERE WAS THE LONG
REPORT THAT CAME OUT MAYBE GOOD
SIGN BUT I DON'T KNOW THAT THE
RESOLUTION SHINS WILL SEND THEM
OUT RIGHT.
>> SO I THINK THAT THAT WOULD
BE REALLY HELPFUL AND ANOTHER
THING IN MY INBOX WOULD BE
GREAT RIGHT NOW.
>> THE OTHER THING BUT WE
SHOULDN'T LOSE AND THIS IS A
QUESTION AND COMMENT
SPECIFICALLY PICKING UP ON WHAT
COMMISSIONER ADAMS SAID ABOUT
OSSI REVIEW.
I BELIEVE THAT OOCYTE IS
SEARCHING FOR THE PERSON WHO
DOES THE REVIEW RIGHT NOW.
SO I THINK THAT THEY WERE AT A
LULL BUT I THINK IT DOESN'T
HURT AND SO TRYING TO FIGURE
OUT HOW TO FILL THAT WHAT WE
WERE TO DO IN THE INTERIM AND
KIND OF WHAT THAT GAP LOOKS
LIKE.
>> BUT I THINK THIS DISCUSSION
THAT WE HAD OR JUST PUTTING ON
THERE LIKE WHAT IS THE LESLI
REVIEW AND SHOULD THAT BE I
WRITE THINGS OR THINGS WITH
MORE DISCRETION.
I WOULD JUST PROPOSE PUTTING
THAT ON A DISCUSSION FOR
SOMETIME.
I THINK THAT SOUNDS GREAT.
THANK YOU.
I CAN'T HELP MYSELF THERE THERE
BECAUSE THE COMMISSION ASKED
FOR THEM.
>> YEAH, TOTALLY UNDERSTOOD.
>> SO WE CAN DEFINITELY WE CAN
DEFINITELY MODIFY THAT TO ONLY
SO IT ONLY APPLIES TO
DISCUSSION.
I THINK THERE'S WISDOM IN THAT
.
YOU KNOW THIS IS THIS IS THE
THIS IS A DANCE BUT I THINK I
THINK I'D BE A GREAT DISCUSSION
TO FIGURE OUT WHERE YOU WANT IT
AND WHERE IT MAKES LESS SENSE.
THANK YOU.
WITHOUT SEEING FURTHER, I JUST
WANT TO SAY ONCE AGAIN ON
BEHALF OF THE ENTIRE BODY
WELCOME TO BRITNEY MARIANNA AND
JULIA REALLY EXCITED TO HAVE
YOU ALL.
>> SO WITH THAT I'M GOING TO
MOVE TO THE LAST ITEM WHICH IS
A GERMAN MOVE BY COMMISSIONER
WHITESON AND SECONDED BY
COMMISSIONER MILLS.
ALL THOSE IN FAVOR SAY AY AY AY
WE ARE ADJOURNED.
>> THANK YOU